Title: A boy and his Kindle
Date: 2011-01-14 18:23
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Miscellaneous, Product Reviews, Reviews, Technology
Tags: 6.5/10, Amazon, Issues, Kindle, Product Review, review, Technology, webkit
Slug: a-boy-and-his-kindle
Status: published

So how was everyones Christmas? Good, I hope. Unless yours was anything
like ours wherein the hot water and heating died on Christmas Day. We
had to heat the place up with the stove tops. It was *rustic*.

Putting aside my moment of Little Tim, Theresa got me a present I'd have
never thought to get myself. Hell, it was a gift I would have never
guessed, as I've never exhibited that much outward desire for it. Now
unless you're not paying attention or you're simple remedial, I am
talking about the  
[Amazon
Kindle](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B002LVUWFE?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B002LVUWFE "Amazon.co.uk - The Kindle").<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/kindle-e1294879568427.jpg "kindle")

Now I would have never thought to buy myself a Kindle, because I am a
huge proponent of physical books. Books can do so much that the Kindle
cannot. Such lists exist [out
there](http://www.irosf.com/q/zine/article/10619 "Kristine Kathryn Rusch - The Top Ten Things I Can't Do with My Kindle"),
but I won't start ranting about it in this post. I love books. I love
their smell, their feel, the sense of accomplishment you get from
finishing them, all of it. I love books, and have since I was a wee lad.
So when I saw the eReaders start to come out, I just sighed gently and
continued going to book stores, knowing that eventually these
wondrous bound tomes would eventually go the way of all great things.

As such, I've never had the desire to own a Kindle. I have a reader on
my iPhone and iPad, and figured that was good enough for when the
physical book could not be owned. I can't buy a lot of books here, so
this is for the time being, quite the requirement for me.

So when my Kindle did arrive (January 7th, thank you very much. Next day
delivery my ginger-haired buttocks), I was pleased to have it, but more
because I could finally open my Christmas present. I wasn't
really salivating at the thought of owning the Kindle itself. However,
since my girlfriend did spend a decent chunk of money to purchase the
Kindle for me, I decided that I should at least give it the old 'college
try.'

Here's what I have to say about it.

First Impressions
-----------------

I own the Kindle 3, graphite with wifi and 3G. We decided to go big or
go home. If nothing else, the fact that I have some sort of access to
the Internet anywhere I can get 3G signal is, I admit, a selling point.

The first thing I noticed was how light it was. It weighs next to
nothing. I'd argue that it's lighter than my phone, and I carry that
around all the time. I also noticed that it has roughly the same
dimensions and feel to it as the
[PADDs](http://memory-alpha.org/wiki/PADD "PADDs") from Star Trek. This
is of course a point in its favour.

The next thing I noticed was the display. They go on about how you can
read it, even in direct sunlight. This is almost true. You can read it
in direct sunlight, just so long as you don't have the sun bouncing off
it just right so that it refracts into your eyes, readily blinding you.
It's not colour (obviously), which I'll get to in a moment.

It's got an a-z keyboard, with most of the extra keys (symbols, numbers,
etc) tucked away in a sub menu. It's a device for reading, which means
that a keyboard doesn't need to be overly thorough. It would have been
nice though. I miss the touch screen of the iPhone/iPad but I understand
that the Kindle isn't an iPad, and a touch screen wouldn't do that much
for the user experience (or the weight).

There are a slew of usability options for those with bad-eyesight, or
other difficulties reading such as font-sizing, changeable fonts (though
only to condensed or sans-serif) and more. There's almost an irony in
the fact that they work so hard to help those with reading difficulties,
but utterly fails everyone else on a number of points (this is covered
in the issues section). There's also some neat experimental stuff that
I'll get to at the end of this review.

The Kindle can also store upwards of 3000 books at any given time.
That's a lot of goddamned books for any one person to carry around. Does
the term 'choice paralysis' mean anything? It also boasts a month-long
battery life, assuming you keep the wifi off. I can't really complain
about that. Heck even with the wifi constantly on, it lasts a lot longer
than I expected it to.

That all being said, there are some issue with the Kindle. Some more
glaringly obvious than others.

Oh, and before we move on, it should be noted here that you can leave
notes per page/book; you can add bookmarks for easy jumping; you can
post quotes to mail,twitter and Facebook; and some other features that I
will honestly never use. I am merely mentioning them for the sake of
completeness.

get\_leader

Issues
------

### Paging buttons

First up, the paging buttons. On the left and right of the Kindle are 4
buttons (2 per side). One goes forward, and the other backwards. Pretty
routine, yes? One button on each side is larger than it's sibling. Now
at first glance you would think that the big button on the right would
page forward, and the big button on the left would page backwards. You
would of course be wrong. Both big buttons page forward, leaving the
page back function to the little sibling buttons.

Now I do understand why they do this: no hand-held bias.  Hold it with
either hand, and the controls are the same. That's fine and dandy, but
when you hold it with two hands like, oh I don't know, a book, your
brain gets confused. This irritates me. Basically if you read with one
hand, you're fine, but with two, you actually need to think about things
if you want to go backwards.

### The display

![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/Kindle-e1294879590875.gif "Kindle")

Great though the display is, there are some issues with it due to the
materials chosen to construct it. You see the screen uses an e-ink
technology that allows the Kindle to shock an image into the e-ink and
walk away. There is no charge required to hold the image there, and this
is part of the reason the battery life on the Kindle is so good; it
doesn't use much to just sit there, showing text.

My issue with the display is two-fold: first, e-ink only comes in one
colour: black. you can do shading on the Kindle, but that's it. No other
colours can you have. Second, every time you have to turn a page, the
screen goes all black before showing the new text. Now I get that this
can be a visual queue for people, but unless you're into your book, this
'black flash' can get distracting. It's the most noticeable when you are
skimming a book; it's damned irritating, and there's nothing to be done
about it. Apparently this flash is worse on the older models. My version
turns pages 20% faster! Yikes.

### Speed (or a lack thereof)

The Kindle isn't nearly as snappy as I expected it to be. It reminds me
a lot of the hand-held games from times of yore. You know, the shitty
little beeping things where you dodged hammers or raced a car. I'm
spoiled with my flashy iDevices, so I'm used to my tech responding
quickly. The Kindle seems limited in its speed due to (I think) its
screen. It can only go as fast as the screen can refresh, which isn't
all that fast. It's not terribly slow, but it's slow enough to get
annoying when you're just trying to move around the device quickly.

### The Keyboard

It's awkward, it's stiff, and having to access an on-screen menu for
additional characters (like say, the comma or the question mark) is
insane. I don't really want to mention the horrifying 5-way cursor ...
thing that you have to endure.

### No Goddamned Backlight

For serious? You want me to spend [*how
much*](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B003DZ165W?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B003DZ165W "Amazon.co.uk - 50 pounds for a case with a light WHAT THE FUCK.")
on a case to have a light? Fuck you. You could build one in and give me
the option of turning it on or something. I'd have paid for that, no
problem. Easily my biggest hang-up with the Kindle.

No fucking backlight, I mean seriously now. *Cocks*.

### General usability issues

If I gave the kindle to my mother, and told her to do anything on it,
the following would happen:

-   Pick it up
-   Look at it
-   Click some buttons
-   Frown
-   Look at me
-   Look back at the Kindle
-   Click some more buttons
-   Smash it against a rock and throw her feces at it like
    an enraged orangoutang.

The reason for this is that my mother isn't tech-savvy. As such, things
need to be made as simple and as obvious as possible without taking away
from the experience. The Kindle isn't any of this. Contextual menus
don't retain common options that you'd expect; the 5-point navigation
abomination is a method of slow torture; visual queues aren't
that noticeable; and buttons that don't do what you expect. Hell, the
first thing you see when you turn it on is the manual. If you don't read
through the first 15 pages of this thing, you're going to be super duper
lost.

I read the manual, and I *never* read manuals.

Also, unless you make yourself some collections, once you start adding
more than say, 10 books onto the Kindle, you're going to have to start
paging a lot to get to the books at the end. On that note, collection
creation and management could be improved immensely. Took me a while to
figure out how to add books to an *existing* collection.

get\_leader

Despite it all...
-----------------

Despite everything listed above, the Kindle does it's job shockingly
well. Yes, in spite of  itself, the Kindle does allow you read a book,
and quickly. I'm devouring books on this device like a fat man in a
skittle factory. I'm not sure if that's just because I'm getting right
back into reading, or if the device actually allows me to read faster. I
don't know, but I've been using it for less than a week and I've
finished 4 books.

for the record, yes I have a job, and no I don't just sit there and read
all day. I actually do work. I do so! Shut up, you don't even *know* me.
You're not my father! *You don't own me!*

Buying books through the Kindle, while a bit janky, is surprisingly easy
and the 3G option allows you to get books pretty much anywhere. This
will spell disaster for my bank account. The Kindle store is simple
enough to navigate, and the prices are alright. Not as cheap as I really
think they should be (for godsake it's a stripped-down PDF, not a bound
book.) but still cheaper than buying the paperback.

The Browser (and the other experimental stuff)
----------------------------------------------

I have to tip my hat to the Kindle team with the experimental portion of
the Kindle. While I have not tried everything (such as mp3 payback or
audio books) the browser and the text-to-speech tools are impressive.

Now with the browser (a webkit-derived browser no less!) you have to
remember that it's black and white, and it's on a Kindle. Basically,
don't expect to be blown away. You have to zoom large pages, scrolling
around is weird, and it can crash. That said, I did manage to use my
Kindle to chat to someone using the [meebo
mobile](https://www.meebo.com/mobile/#FrontPage "Meebo - mobile site")
site, which was doable, if not entirely enjoyable. I should state that
if you plan to visit Facebook, for the love of god, visit the mobile
version. The main version is heavy, and it broke my Kindle. I had to do
a hard-reset just to fix it. Normal off/on wouldn't work.

In case anyone is wondering, a hard reset can be performed by sliding
the power switch over and holding it there for at least 20 seconds.

The voice-over tool actually impressed me. While not as smooth as Apples
text-to-speech AI voice actor thing, the Kindle does a decent job not
sounding like Steven Hawking on a bad day. I don't know if I could have
an entire book read to me in that voice, but it is far better than I
expected.

Overall
-------

I've learned to like the Kindle. I don't think I'll ever truly love the
device, but I'll probably miss it when it goes away. It does its primary
job very well, and web browser doesn't totally suck. There are som
obvious issues with the usability that hopefully will be removed in
later iterations of the Kindle.

6.5/10
