Title: Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney - Capcom (2007)
Date: 2009-04-09 09:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Game Reviews, Nintendo DS
Tags: 2007, 6.5/10, Ace Attorney, Apollo Ace, Capcom
Slug: apollo-justice-ace-attorney-capcom-2007
Status: published

Anyone who has talked to me about DS games will inevitably find out that
I am a complete fanboy when it comes to what I call "[The Lawyer
Games](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ace_Attorney "Wikipedia: Ace Attorney")."
This catchall title is used when talking about any of the Phoenix Wright
or Apollo Justice games. I've talked about
[previous](/2007/11/05/phoenix-wright-ace-attorney "WallOfScribbles.com: Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney")
[installments](/2008/01/14/phoenix-wright-justice-for-all-capcom-2007 "WallOfScribbles.com: Phoenix Wright: Justice For All")
of the series, and so now that I find myself with a little time
(shockingly) I thought that I should probably get off my ass and get to
writing! Self-deprecating aside, I've always enjoyed the Ace Attorney
series, but I honestly found this one to be a little lost. Well, a
little lost until the end when the grand machinations of the writers
come to fruition.

Self-deprecating, machinations, and fruition, all in two sentences. I
think my brain is having some kind of vocabulistic everything-must-go
sale. Of course then I go ahead and say something like vocabulistic, and
all of my grammar street cred get's shot to hell.

Anyways! Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney! Review! Commence!

<!--more-->So what is it about [playing a lawyer on a
DS](http://www.ace-attorney.com/ "Ace Attorney") that makes it so much
damn fun? Is it the intrigue? Is it the ripping apart of testimony? Is
it the sharp suits and crisp air of determination? No. Though very good
things all of those, to most it is probably the thrill one gets when you
bust out a solid "Objection!" when you know the witness is a lying sack
of shit.

This thrill usually turns into panic when you realize you just screamed
into the tiny microphone of your tiny game device on a crowded bus on
your way to work.

Still, it feels fucking *sweet* to let 'er rip.

Synopsis
--------

Much like the previous installments, Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is
about, wait for it now, wait… wait… an attorney! Not only that but he's
brand new (just like Phoenix was in the first one, and his boss in a
later flashback episode). I assume this is so that anyone who is green
and playing this for the first time can get yet another walkthrough on
how to be a lawyer. Sadly, If you haven't played the earlier games, the
insane plot that develops in this one will be somewhat pale in
understanding, depth, and appreciation. You go up against the same guy
from the other games (the douchebag with the glasses... I can't remember
his name) and slowly rip his case apart. Even the first case causes some
brain melting when you realize what's going on. I swear this game wastes
no time ruining your understanding.

Apollo learns the ropes from his boss, but later finds himself at the
Wright Talent Agency. Here is he introduced to his future side-kick,
Trudy. Trudy is 15, a magician, and apparently Phoenix Wrights daughter.
This is somewhat puzzling, because this title is set 7 years later, and
in the last installment - Trials and Tribulations if you're curious - he
didn't even have <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">a love
interest</span> a living love interest in which to house his unborn
spawn. So right from the get-go, thing's aren't what the seem.

Let me assure you that by the time you get to the third case, you will
throw your hands in the air and scream at your DS. "This is insanity!" I
was quoted to say, "It's like they got all the old writers from LOST and
threw them at the franchise!" Trust me when I say that though I was a
gibbering idiot - made so by the utter and complete batshit nonsense
that was going on - my statement was completely accurate. The story does
culminate to some sort of sense at the end, but by Jove did they have to
stretch to get it all to fit. Much like a fat woman who thinks that
wearing a smaller size will actually make her look smaller, Apollo
Justice simply has too much required back-story to fit into it's size 2
hotpants.

Mechanics
---------

Very little has changed throughout the series, with three notable
exceptions.

First, The Magatama is not exclusively used. Now I say "exclusively"
because there is a point where it is put into play. It is not, however
the secret weapon of Apollo Justice. In his case, his bracelet, a large
wooden thing, tingles. When it tingles it allows him to focus. When he
focuses, he can detect small ticks people exhibit when fibbing out their
ass. Granted, a facial tick is a bit of a stretch when it comes to court
proceedings but, hey, I'm not a lawyer. In any case, when detecting
ticks, you get a blown up view of the witness, and while looking though
something distinctly "Eye of Sauran-y" you canvas their body while they
speak. When you find the phrase in question, you bust them. This is
followed by the presentation of evidence.

The second element is actually an older one, but you can now examine
every piece of evidence in your possession. This very rarely serves an
actual purpose, but it's nice that they included the ability. Many
little useless yet useful tidbits of information can be gleaned from
such investigations. I'm sad that this sort of scientific analysis
doesn't factor in more.

get\_leader

Third, but no less a change of pace: 3d stuff. Like, a lot of 3d stuff.
Like a lot of actually cool 3d stuff. They actually recreate murder
scenes using 3d renderings and I have to say that for what it is, it's
pretty sweet. It works to add a depth to the court proceedings, but
sadly it isn't really used enough to warrant it's existence at all. It's
cool for the sake of being cool, which is a real shame, given how cool
it *actually* is. It's like the Fonz jumping a shark. It's cool in
*theory*, but in practice… well we all know where the saying came from
now [don't
we](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpraJYnbVtE "YouTube: Fonzie Jumps the Shark")?

There is a fourth exception, but it's an integral part of the plot so
I'm unwilling to talk too much about it. The Jurist System is introduced
to the story, though it doesn't play too much of a role short of an
eventuality. You eventually take on the role of a jurist to decide the
fate of the accused, but other then that I shall let you decide on it. I
personally thought it was neat but not a required move on the developers
part.

Omissions
---------

I have to make a point that certain things were omitted from the game
this time around, and it actually irritated me. Certain characters were
missing, but 7 years had passed, and I was willing to let that slide.
Onwards and upwards and all that. What irritated me the most was the
fact that in previous games, you could present both evidence and
profiles to people as part of your investigation. In this installment,
the ability to present profiles to people you are interviewing has been
removed, and that bugs me. It's not like they had to have a completely
different system for it, and yet they scrapped it. Why? To make room for
new-fangled systems (I'm looking at you electronic picture scanner
thingimabob) or meerly to simplify the investigation process for
new-comers to the series. Either way I'm not impressed with their
choice.

Also, there are only four stories to be found in Apollo Justice. This
came to a shock to me, because I'm used to enjoying 5 mind-bending
stories of deceit and subterfuge. Instead I was given four utterly
mind-crushing, completely bollocks-level stories. Now I don't mind the
fact that they assault the psyche, but I do mind that in order to fit in
additional frilly things, they had to drop an entire story.

Overall
-------

I liked it, but I didn't love it. I loved the earlier installments with
a passion, but this one? Well I enjoyed it. It brought my pleasure and
killed time - roughly 23 hours over a flight to and from Japan - so I
can't fault it too much on that level. It had sharper and more elaborate
graphics than the older games, so in that respect it was great. I think
the big failing here was the enormity of the over-arcing story. I could
see it all coming a mile away, and yet it was still there was so much
left unanswered. Hell, by the end of the game, I was just going through
the motions because the game jumped a plot-induced hyper-shark, and I
could finally just accept everything they threw at me.

This is not what should happen in a game.

So there you go, I was happy about it, but they reached a little too
far, and tripped up on themselves. They got feature-crazy, and forgot
what made the series great: investigating, interrogating, and being
pimp-assed awesome in the courtroom.

6.5/10
