Title: Bioshock - 2K (2007)
Date: 2011-01-06 15:00
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Game Reviews, Reviews, Xbox
Tags: Bioshock, Creepy little girls, First-Person Shooters, Rapture
Slug: bioshock
Status: published

Let us pretend for the sake of this review that it's 2007; people are
getting shot at Virginia Tech, Bob Barker airs his last episode of The
Price is Right, some intense earthquakes happen, and countries are
revoting against their respective leaders. I'd list them here, but
seriously, there were a lot of revolts that year. You could say it
was.... insane? Hah, you totally though I was going to say 'revolting'
but I didn't and I totally got you. You should see the look on your
face.

Anyways.

On top of all of this,
[Bioshock](http://www.bioshockgame.com/ "Bioshock") hits the market and
ends up getting a whole slew of reviews and press. No solid reviews have
come out beyond the wank-fests of the big game rags, and he Internet
waits for the independent reviews to start coming in.

That's where this review comes in. For those that don't want to play
along, yes this is a review for a game that I only just got around to
playing about 3 years later. I was a busy man, probably.

To the review-mobile!<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

Overview
--------

[![Bioshock](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/bioshock.jpg "bioshock")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/bioshock.jpg)[Bioshock](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B000V1VZMK?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B000V1VZMK "Amazon.co.uk - Bioshock")
is the story of one mans trip through another mans dream come nightmare.
Not in a weird outer-limits sort of way, but in a legitimate 'I built a
city under the sea where the success of he individual is more important
than the thriving of he many, but something went terribly wrong and now
the city is falling down around my ears and I am half-blaming you' sort
of way.

Basically your plane crash-lands right at the entrance of Rapture, an
under-water city built where the free man could truly be free. You walk
into the spire, and are treated to an introduction by the man himself,
Andrew Ryan. However, when you get to the city, you quickly realize that
something is a bit... off. You are then sucked into a whirlwind
adventure that is similar to a bad, bad trip though an abandoned theme
park. That's under water. Where everyone is addicted to self-alteration.
And everything wants to wear your skin as a fine suit. You know, *that*
tired, old story again.

As you work your way further into Rapture, more of the story unfolds
with Ryan trying to kill you and Atlas, the perky Irishman talking you
through the place to help keep you alive. Things, of course, are not
what they seem to be and nothing can ever just be straight-forward.
Especially in Rapture, the city of scaring the shit clean out of you.

A you get further and further into Rapture, you start to learn about how
it used to be, and were it all started going wrong. The lines start to
blur between the good and the bad, and you realize that even your own
actions can have repercussions.

Gameplay
--------

[Bioshock](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B000V1VZMK?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B000V1VZMK "Amazon.co.uk - Bioshock")
plays more or less like your standard shooter. You have a melee weapon,
your pistol, your shotgun, your machine gun, your explosives, and your
sniper derivative. However it also comes with the added bonus of
Plasmids, which are more or less ways of altering your genetics to allow
you to do such things as shoot electricity from your hand. These Plasmid
skills work along side your normal weapon arsenal to allow you quite a
lot of freedom in how you deal with the local combative population: the
Splicers.

The splicers come in a variety of flavors, from melee fighters, to
explosive-toting assholes, to these jackass splicers that can disappear
and reappear somewhere else just to fuck with you. They are all
super-duper extra crazy, and when they' not trying to rip your face off,
you can listen to them saying any number of creepy, upsetting things.

Now, Plasmids don't come cheap. Well okay yes, the Plasmids you find
laying around are, but the good ones have to be purchased, and you
cannot buy them with cash. In order to get your greasy palms on Plasmids
that don't suck, or to upgrade your health etc. you need to get yourself
some ADAM. This is where things get worrying.

You see everyone wants ADAM, and theres really only so much to go
around. The solution then is to recycle it from the dead because, hey,
they don't need it anymore now do they? So what's the best tool for that
job? Why genetically altered little girls with glowing yellow eyes,
underwater sea slugs imbedded in them, whom have giant metallic body
guards, and say creepy things like "look Mr. Bubbles, I can see the
Angels." Mr. Bubbles is the giant metal guard dog thing, just to keep
you in the loop here.

[![Big Brothers dislike
you](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/combat.png "Big Brothers dislike you")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/combat.png)

You get the choice: do you harvest the little girl(s), getting way more
ADAM but killing the girl; or do you rescue her, leaving you with less
ADAM but lets you sleep at night. Are they monsters or victims? It's
your call.

So this is all pretty much par for the course in Bioshock. Pretty much
everything in Rapture is meant to upset you, scare you, or put you on
edge. Believe me when I say,
[Bioshock](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B000V1VZMK?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B000V1VZMK "Amazon.co.uk - Bioshock")
does a very good job of this. Hell, this is part of the reason it took
me so long to even play Bioshock; I don't do well with scare-tactic
games. That is to say that I get *wayyyyyy* too into them, and this
causes me to get really scared, really easily. Attach that to my itchy
trigger finger and you get a guy that is running around scared and out
of ammo for most of the game.

There are also the hacking and photography aspects to Bioshock that I
should touch on. Hacking is pretty straight forward: you hack things to
have them work in your favour. Hack a vending machine, and you get
cheaper prices and a greater variety; hack a turret, and it'll work for
you instead of trying to shot the hell out of you; hack a safe, and you
get its contents.

The hacking game is literally that old windows game [Pipe
Mania](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipe_Mania "Wikipedia - Pipe Mania")
where you have to guide a glowing blue liquid from the start to the end
without screwing up. This gets old pretty fast, and the only way to get
around most of the hacking comes from photography.

Photography in Bioshock is something you really want to invest some time
into. As you photograph Splicers, turrets, security cameras, and little
sisters, you get perks. These range from increased damage against said
genre of beast, instant hacking ability, or slight increases to your
health and EVE (the juice your Plasmids use). Fully research something,
and it usually ends with a Plasmid or Combat tonic (basically the same
thing). Totally worth it. If nothing else, the ability to auto-hack
turrets was a god-send.

I'm also going to say here that the levels are massive, sprawling, and
filled to the gills with secret passages and hidden treats. Even when
you finish a 'level' you will probably be tempted to explore every inch
of the place before moving on. Actually, scratch that. You ***really
should*** explore every inch of every level, because your whole Biohock
experience will be that much better.

Also, it's a total bitch to go back to a previous level.

get\_leader

Graphics
--------

Rapture is pretty, in that exploded, ruined, and drug-adled sort of way.

![No Gods or Kings. Only
Men.](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/bioshock-ryans.jpg "No Gods or Kings. Only Men.")

I am playing this game 3 years later on an xbox 360 (with the framerate
unlocked, which actually tones the graphics back a bit), and I can state
with confidence that Bioshock is one of the best-looking games I have
ever played for the 360. I'm sure there are others that can beat it, but
remember that his game is 3 years old and still holds it's own.

It really comes down to the little details in
[Bioshock](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B000V1VZMK?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B000V1VZMK "Amazon.co.uk - Bioshock")
that make it shine: the detail in the plaster walls, the screwed up
make-up of some of the female splicers, the 1950s style art deco
fixtures and posters, the list goes on. Simply put: Rapture is simply
gorgeous to look at.

Music / Sound
-------------

Rapture may be wonderful to look at it, but its the ambient noises that
will put you on edge right from the get go; creaks, pangs, haunted
footsteps, distant screams, the list is endless. There isn't a lot of
music in Bioshock, but the music that does exist is well placed, and
generally contrasts the situation so drastically that it only helps to
increase the tension.

To cite an example: when you are walking around an abandoned apartment
waiting for something to jump out at you, and "how much is that puppy in
the window" is plinking away in the background, well... It screws with
you.

Lets not forget all of the wonderfully terrifying things that everyone
says. I am torn for my favorite; its either the woman singing "hush
little baby, don't say a word" to a pistol in a stroller, sobbing
because the 'baby' wont cry; or its the lady lamenting how she came to
Rapture to be a star, and then screaming "now look at me" is the
angriest, most anguished voice possible. Seriously, the first half of
this game works your brain like a fine dough, mixing in terror and fear
this each knead of your mind.

Sometimes it's the absence of sound that is more terrifying. There is
point in the game that, if you decide to explore a little harder, you
turn the normally loud, findable Spider Splicers (they climb walls and
shit, yeah you read that correctly) into mute clay mannequin versions of
themselves. They no longer talk, and no longer make a noise as they
crawl up behind you. Trust me when I say that this is so much worse. It
means that even in silence you are no longer safe, which was up until
that point your one sole indicator of relative safety.

There is also a lot of background sound going on that I highly suggest
you stop and listen to. The 'Rapture Reminders' change throughout the
game, and give hints as to the situation and its deterioration. The info
bytes featuring Mary and Jim start off as helpful tips, but slowly turn
into a propaganda machine and they too help outline what is going on to
Rapture and yourself.

There are also the audio diaries you pick up along the way. These help
outline what is really going on, expand on the main characters, and even
give you some random insights into the day to day life of the once
brilliant Rapture. If you want to get the most out of your time in
Bioshock, I suggest you find as many of these tapes as you can.

Issues
------

I'm really hard-pressed to find issue with
[Bioshock](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B000V1VZMK?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B000V1VZMK "Amazon.co.uk - Bioshock").
The only glaring issues are the obvious ones: hacking is a pain in the
ass, and taking photos of enemies basically gives them free-reign to rip
you apart while you try and frame them just so.

Now as my own pet peeve, I'm just going to through it out here that any
and all escort missions should stripped from games. The AI scripting for
every escort mission in every game sucks just a little too much. Escort
missions tend to become high-stress, annoying interludes to the fun
parts of a game. Bioshock's escort mission is no exception to the rule.
It's long, it's tedious, and was easily my least favourite part of the
game,

The only other thing I can really find issue with Bioshock is that going
between levels is hard. Its in no way impossible, but its such a pain in
the ass that even when you CAN go back to a previous area, you have no
desire to.

Overall
-------

Damned awesome. I wish someone had talked me into playing it when it
first came out. I suggest that if you haven't had a chance to play
[Bioshock](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B000V1VZMK?ie=UTF8&tag=walofscr-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B000V1VZMK "Amazon.co.uk - Bioshock"),
that you clear out a week in your schedule, kiss your loved ones
goodbye, and secret yourself away in front of this game. Make sure only
come out when your brain has melted and Rapture has been saved.

9/10
