Title: Black Swan (2011)
Date: 2011-02-18 00:22
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Art, Movie Reviews, Reviews
Tags: 9/10, Barbara Hershey, Black Swan, Mila Kunis, Mind=Blown, Movie Reviews, Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel
Slug: black-swan-2011
Status: published

It's actually been a while since I've been to the theaters. The last
time I was there, I saw TRON. We all know how I [felt about
that](/2010/tron-legacy-it-made-me-has-a-sad "Wallofscribbles.com - TRON Legacy. It made me has a sad").
Generally I'll watch movies at home rather than pay the anal-rending
prices that the UK movie chains charge their unsuspecting victims.

However, there are a bunch of legitimately interesting movies coming out
right now. So much so that I am willing to go to the movie theaters to
watch them (though I'll admit that this decision is assisted heavily by
the 2 for 1 deal I can get every wednesday).

One such movie that has just come out here in the UK is [Black
Swan](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Swan_(film) "Wikipedia - Black Swan (film)"),
staring the ever impressive (to me, anyways) Natalie Portman, and the
spunky Mila Kunis who shocked me with an actual acting ability. Classed
as a psychological thriller, Black Swan draws you in, and then
effectively horrifies you on any number of levels for most of the film.
For those too lazy to read the rest of this review, I will leave you
with the words I uttered when the credits began to roll:

"Holy shit… **Holy.** ***Shit.***

<!--more-->

[![Black Swan Poster - Look at this thing! It's
stunning!](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/Black-Swan-Poster-410x601.jpg "Black Swan Poster - Look at this thing! It's stunning!")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/Black-Swan-Poster.jpg)

Synopsis
--------

Nina, played by Portman, is a ballerina at a large theatre house in the
city she lives in (both, as near as I can tell are unmentioned). She's a
dedicated performer that hopes to become the next leading lady in the
house's production of Swan Lake. Her mother, played terrifyingly well by
Barbara Hershey, is a failed ballerina that has in turn focused all of
her energy, hopes, and dreams into Portman's career. So much so that
their relationship is far from healthy.

As the movie progresses, Nina wins the role but is told that she must be
both the White swan - fragile, beautiful, a 'virgin' - and the black
swan - evil, manipulative, seductive - which is a mental state that Nina
cannot easily summon. This is due to her borderline insane home life
that has cocooned her in a semi-child-like life and has stunted her
sexually. She starts noticing scratches on her back, and starts to see a
darker version of her as she walks around or looks in mirrors.

Then you have Lily, played by Kunis, who is for all intents and
purposes, Ninas opposite. She's sexy, she's carefree, a rebel, and a
dancer that doesn't conform to perfection, but flows naturally to the
music and as such can lose herself in the moment. Effectively everything
Nina is not. They strike up an odd friendship that just goes all over
the place. There is a shockingly passionate scene between the two in the
film, but when Nina confronts Lily about it, Lily denies it ever
happening. This adds weight to Ninas worries that she's losing her mind,
and her paranoia goes through the roof.

As the movie nears the end, Nina distrusts Lily, thinking that Lily is
trying to steal her spot as the Swan Queen. As all this is happening the
movie gets more and more surreal, with Nina visually losing her mind,
not understanding what is going on or even why. Her personality becomes
more erratic, and she's terrified of what's happening to her.

The movie climaxes with Nina taking her spot as the Swan Queen - much to
the chagrin of Lily. As the white swan, she's nervous and actually
blunders one of the scenes. There's an altercation with Lily where Lily
is killed before the show, but at intermission we find out that she's
not dead at all. This confuses Nina, but only for a moment before she
transforms herself into the black swan. She dances 'perfectly',
transforming on stage into what appears to be a human swan. In actuality
no such thing happens, but this is what Nina sees.

The end of the movie is very much the same as the play in which the
movie surrounds itself with. She embraces the role, and as she says she
was 'perfect.' This carries so much gravitas, and caused me to go
slack-jawed from the power of its delivery.

[![Black Swan - Nina dances
alone](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/Black-Swan-spotlight-410x176.jpg "Black Swan - Nina dances alone")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/Black-Swan-spotlight.jpg)

What I liked
------------

Oh where to start? I could gush for a very long time about Black Swan,
but I'll do my best to stay at least somewhat objective about it.

### The acting

Everyone in Black Swan holds their own. The casting was shockingly well
done, with everyone managing to click. Portman, Kunis, Hershey, and
Vincent Cassel do an utterly amazing job of making you give a shit about
the story. Everyone plays their part perfectly; Portman plays the
insecure and fragile ballet dancer that just wants to be perfect;
Hershey plays an unstable mother with control issues stunningly; Kunis
plays what is probably an easy role for her as the sultry, carefree
temptress; and Cassel does an amazing job of playing the manipulative,
greedy, semi-antagonist.

The chemistry of everyone on screen is explosive. Each direct
relationship works perfectly. Real cudos should be given to Natalie
Portman, who does an amazing job throughout the whole film. While all
the supporting actors work perfectly in their roles, Portman does a good
portion of the movie solo. This is a hard thing for any actor to do, let
alone one that must demonstrate a degrading psyche with bouts of
paranoia and an emerging split-personality. Tack that onto the fact that
this girl is fragile in so many other ways, and you are left with a
performance that will leave you awed.

### The music

You never really realize where some scores are from until it's spelled
out for you. In this case, pretty much all of the music is pulled
directly from Swan Lake itself. The tone and flow of the movie fit
unsettlingly well with the scores chosen. While many of the scenes in
the movie can hold their own without music, the accompaniment of scores
from the ballet do so much to help underscore the joy of some scenes,
the adulation of others, and the reserved , crushing sadness of the
rest. Whoever set up the score for this movie deserves a medal.

[![Black Swan - The Black swan
dances](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/black-swan-stage-410x221.jpg "Black Swan - The Black swan dances")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/black-swan-stage.jpg)

### The cinematography

This is probably the first film I've watched that does a follow-cam to
good effect. A good portion of the film is shot over Nina's shoulder.
This happens more and more the further along the movie you go. The
technique is used to brilliant effect, and the entire time it's
happening you feel like you're literally watching her from over her
shoulder. This in turn makes her seem uncomfortable to the watcher.
There are scenes that are shot in this method where you can hear Ninas
breathing, and mild panic-y grunts as she dances trying not to step out
of perfection. Sounds are ramped up during many of these scenes so that
you really get a feel for how she's feeling.

Other shots are done with an experts eye. Mirrors are featured heavily
throughout the film, and there are many shots that take full advantage
of them. Many of the special effects applied are through these mirrors,
and of them, most are subtle. If you're not looking at the right spot at
the right time, you can actually miss some of the more unnerving
elements of a scene. Many scenes will have just a moment of something
off-putting: a face in the mirror glancing in the wrong direction; a
ripple in Ninas skin texture; the off glances; the list goes on.

#### Symbolism

Oh man. Ohhh *man*. If I was in university for say, psychology or mental
illness or occult studies or something, this movie would have made me
cream myself. There are layers and layers to this movie that you could
spend hours [ripping apart and
analyzing](http://vigilantcitizen.com/?p=6223 "The Occult Interpretation of the Movie “Black Swan” ").
You've got the creepy one-on-one relationships, Nina's youthful room,
the scratches, the use of mirrors, the self-visualizing Nina does, the
sexy-time scenes, the eyes, the use of blood, and a billion other things
that I won't bother listing.

What impresses me about these though is not so much that they're
strewn throughout the movie, but that they're applied with such academic
perfection, that in many cases you don't even realize what's going on
unless you're looking. Yet the fact that they're there affects your
interaction with the movie regardless of your noticing them or not.

The movie operates on so many levels that it actually took me a good
while of thinking about it to really start to understand just how much
was truly going on. I mean on the surface, the plot is not dissimilar to
Swan Lake (how meta), but under that there are layers of emotion and
concepts that the movie is trying to convey to the user. The strain of
being in Ninas position, the stress her mother puts on her, the pressure
she gets from Thomas Leroy (Cassel), this list goes on and on *as well*.
Under all that, the movie opts to explore mor basic human nature and
needs. Seriously there's enough going on in this movie to let you
analyze it for days.

What I disliked
---------------

Shockingly little ends up in this section. Other than a couple of odd
bits of CG use that just didn't look as polished as they could have
been, I've got no real complaints about Black Swan. I wish there was
more to say about what fell short with this movie, but honestly there's
nothing. The only thing I could think to mention is some people seem to
dislike Portman for no reason, and seem to transfer that dislike over to
the movie itself. This is a damned shame, but people are allowed to do
that.

[![Black Swan - The eyes, oh god the
eyes](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/black-swan-eyes-410x223.jpg "Black Swan - The eyes, oh god the eyes")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/black-swan-eyes.jpg)

A word of caution
-----------------

Black Swan is fucked up. I don't mean that in a zombie-fest sort of way,
or in a Chucky sort of way. I mean fucked up on a truly disturbing and
upsetting  level. A common phrase to use for Black Swan is that it is
'difficult to watch.' This is very true. Black Swan pulls no punches,
and while some movies love to roll around in the field of your personal
discomfort (laughing all the way), this movie does not. It makes you
uncomfortable because you need to be to really get into this movie.
Black swan takes no pleasure in upsetting you, but does it so that you
can understand (or at least try to) just how tortured Nina is.

If you dislike movies with a lot of thinking, movies with deeply
unsettling themes, or scenes of people being sort-of taken advantage of,
you will not like Black Swan. Please trust me when I say that this movie
will not be for you, and you will be angry at yourself, the movie, and
its creators if you go to watch it.

Black Swan is fucked up. It's amazingly fucked up, but it's fucked up
all the same.

Overall
-------

I could go on and on about Black Swan. It's one of the best movies I
have seen in a long time, and will easily land itself in my favourites
list.

The acting was stunning, the score was perfect, the technical aspects
were spot on, and there was enough content to read into that could keep
my chronically over-analyzing brain happy for a long time. It's screwed
up, it's dark, it's revealing, and it's a work of art.

9/10
