Title: Blindness (2008)
Date: 2008-10-06 09:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Movie Reviews, Reviews
Tags: 6.5/10, Blindness, Movie Reviews
Slug: blindness-2008
Status: published

What to say about
[Blindness](http://www.blindness-themovie.com/ "Blindness The Movie")? I
went and saw it with Theresa when It came out in Canada (October 3rd, if
anyone is wondering). We had seen previews for it months ago, and the
idea intregued us both. At that point it fell off the map to anyone who
wasn't actively trying to follow it.

Apparently it was shown at the Cannes film festival to mixed reception.
Reading reviews online does little to ease ones trepidation towards the
film. It seems that Blindness is a movie that has those who love it, and
others that feel that it was "<span class="story_body">[like looking
into the sky and having sand poured into your
eyes](http://www.filmthreat.com/index.php?section=reviews&Id=11233 "Blindness: reviewed")."
I've had to think long and hard about what I really felt about
it.</span>

It had all the makings for a great film: a good premise, a fairly strong
cast calling, some impressive cinematography, an excellent musical
score, and a fair amount of detail. So what happened?


<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->


The Good
--------

### Storyline

A neat storyline adapted from SOMEONES NOVEL, Blindness takes place in
current day earth, where a strange and unexplained illness starts
spreading. People start going blind - seeing white - even though they
are otherwise perfectly healthy. Those afflicted are soon spirited away
to an abandoned asylum to be quarantined. The main male lead, "Doctor"
according to
[IMDB](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0861689/ "IMDB: Blindness"), is one
of the afflicted and as he is carried off, his wife (Doctor's Wife)
dives into the truck. As the movie progresses and more and more people
lose their sight, the Wife maintains her sight despite everyone around
her being infected.

The story overall moved me in both good and bad ways. It depressed me
considering how accurate some of the actions in the story really were.
It scared me to know that people could and would react in the ways that
they did. It inspired me that some could act with the courage required
to hold people together.

### Music

The musical score is subtle and at many tines haunting. It complimented
most scenes and added that extra level that really drove things home.
Some of the more disturbing scenes were really made that much more
upsetting by the soundtrack and actual lack of music. I cannot explain
further without giving things away, but trust me when I say that
Blindness stepped over some lines with what they did.

The Bad
-------

### Plot devices

Everywhere. Every-frigging-where. If you know what you're doing, you can
pretty much read how the movie is going to goâ€¦ mostly. If you read into
scenes and see what's going on, you know what will happen later on. I
called more things than I really wanted to, which is always depressing.
TV with a guy on it? Yup. Only person who can see finds scissors? Yup.
The only person that can see finds a grocery store's back room? Yup. The
list goes on.



The plot devices were easily the second most annoying thing with the
entire movie. They seem to be almost overly obvious sometimes, seemingly
thrown in your face, just in case you missed it. Other seeming plot
devices are brought up for no other point than to tie things back to
some random page in the novel. Very depressing.

### RANDOM SHIT WHAT THE HELL

What's a good idea when your wife is the only person that can see - as
far as you know of - in the whole world? Sleep with some random blind
girl for no reason whatsoever! That's right, random affair that is
basically required so that Doctor and Wife can reconcile later. Let's
sing on the radio. Lets have random naked people. Lets Include shower
scenes for no real reason. Let's have more naked people walking down
abandoned highways, making sure that they've never once thought of
personal grooming.

I guess this also falls mostly into plot devices, but they were just so
damned random that I feel they earned their own section.

### Narration

The random and late introduced narration made me want to rip my ears
off. Not only was 99% of it utterly pointless, but the other 1% of it
felt rather self-indulgent and utterly fake. It was easily the worst
aspect to the film by far. I don't even need to explain further; the
Narration was atrocious.

The meh
-------

### Cinematography

I want to say that all the shots and all of the effects used were
applied with a delicate hand, accented the scenes, and were not in the
least bit self-indulgent. I would like to say that, but some of the
shots were... difficult to figure out, some of the shots totally done
for the sake of the "sweet effect" and even more shots were difficult to
follow.

Some of the effects were impressive - the kid walking into the table -
was impressive, and I liked the use of a washed out colour-palette; it
helped with the general bleak feeling to the entire movie. The over-use
of the "blurry scenes" was hard to take.

### The Acting

Some of the actors were good (Julliane Moore,Alice Braga), some were
alright (Mark Ruffalo, Yusuke Iseya), and some that should have been
good fell on their faces (I'm looking at you [Danny
Glover](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ecx5RabND0 "Danny Glover")).
Some of the characters felt so impressively stereotyped that you can't
help but cringe. Julliane Moore - The Doctor's Wife - does a fantastic
job in the movie; an important fact given that the entire more is
basically centred around her trying to support everyone.

Overall I liked it, but not as much as I should have. It had all the
fixings for a great movie, but fell on its face somewhere down the line.

6.5/10
