Title: Blog Action Day: Poverty in Canada
Date: 2008-10-15 13:09
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Bad bad bad, Personal, Self-Improvement
Tags: Activism, Blog Action Day 2008, Charity, Poverty
Slug: blog-action-day-poverty-in-canada
Status: published

As a bit of a change of pace, I'm going to talk about Poverty. I've
joined with [many, many other online writers
today](http://www.blogactionday.org/ "Blog Action Day 2008") to join in
and participate in talking about this years subject (Poverty, in case
you forgot).

I thought at first about writing about Poverty all over the world. Then
I thought about writing about Poverty in your own country. That's when I
realized I could talk about my own country, because damn it, I live here
and this shit's important. This is probably one of the issues closest to
my heart on this planet and I'll be damned to give up an opportunity to
help.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

I am against Poverty.
---------------------

[](http://www.blogactionday.org/ "Blog Action Day 2008")

For the grammar and spelling Nazis out there, you will notice that I'm
giving Poverty a capital 'P'. My reasoning for this is simple: Poverty
is not just a state; it's not just something that happens to people.
Poverty is a being. It's a horrible, twisted thing that exists
everywhere you go. Wherever you find people, you will find Poverty near
by.

Poverty is life going wrong.

Poverty is mistakes.

Poverty is screwing up, hard luck, a missed bill, an empty stomach, a
bitter cold night, an addiction you can't shake,  a child without a
home, a man with enough dignity that he will actually beg for help, a
squeegee kid, an over-crowded shelter, a woman riding the bus until it
closes, a person drowning their sorrows, an under-paid worker, a child
labourer, a person who needs help.

Poverty is a disease.

Poverty is a mistake.

Poverty is a thing, and we have to stare at it right in the eye, and
bludgeon it to death with a baseball bat.

Poverty in Canada
-----------------

Canada is considered to be a first-world country, and is a part of the
G8. We are recognized in the world as a great country; a land of
opportunities and free thought. A place where people can make their
lives better.

Then why is it that even in Canada, a place that I am proud to call my
home, we have such high rates of poverty? In 2000 Canada's Poverty rate
rested somewhere about 16%. Given the population was just shy of 30
million, that adds up to roughly 4.7 million people resting below the
Poverty line. Some reports conflict saying that it was actually only
around 11-12%. Going with those numbers, we've still got 3.3 - 3.6
million people below the poverty line.

Those same reports also say that as of 2005, the poverty rate is resting
around 11 %. I feel it's pretty safe to say that though a couple years
have passed, I doubt that number has fluctuated that much. So we have
3.3 million people that live below the Poverty line.

What the hell?
--------------

This isn't right. In a country as great as it is - sorry world, I'm a
touch patriotic - how is it that literally 1/10th of the population -
1.2 million of which are children - are living below the poverty line?
I'm aware that Canada does not officially have a set poverty line, but a
yearly calculated value. Even with that fact in mind, how can things be
as bad as they are?

What can we do?
---------------

Well if you want to feel good, throw some money into some hats, cups,
bowls, or whatever the poor on the street use to beg. That will give you
a warm feeling in your stomach as you walk on down the street to buy
food that costs too much and clothing that you're over-charged for.

If you want to make a real difference, try spending your money and your
time helping organizations that are working on improving the quality of
life both locally and globally.

Here's a very small list of national and international charities that
you can work with and donate to. If you don't like the one's I've
listed, [find another
one](http://www.google.ca/search?source=ig&hl=en&rlz=&=&q=Poverty+Charities&btnG=Google+Search&meta= "Google: Search Results for Poverty Charities")
and get started.

### Make Poverty History

"Make Poverty History has mobilized Canadians like never before on
issues related to poverty at home and abroad. From hundreds of events to
hundreds of thousands of e-mail messages to politicians, from getting
organized in communities to meeting with decision-makers, Canadian Make
Poverty History campaigners are standing up and making a difference."

Website: <http://www.makepovertyhistory.ca>

### Free The Children

"Free The Children is the world's largest network of children helping
children through education, with more than one million youth involved in
our innovative education and development programs in 45 countries.
Founded in 1995 by international child rights activist Craig Kielburger,
Free The Children has a proven track record of success. The organization
has received the World's Children's Prize for the Rights of the Child
(also known as the Children's Nobel Prize), the Human Rights Award from
the World Association of Non-Governmental Organizations, and has formed
successful partnerships with leading school boards and Oprah's Angel
Network."

Website: <http://www.freethechildren.com>

### Meal Exchange

"Meal Exchange is a national student-founded, youth-driven, registered
charity organized to address local hunger by mobilizing the talent and
passion of students. Since 1993, our programmes have been run on over 50
campuses across Canada and generated over \$2 million dollars worth of
food or 727,200 meals to address local hunger."

Website:
[http://www.mealexchange.com](http://www.mealexchange.com/index.php "Meal Exchange")

### National Anti-Poverty Organization

"**The mission** of the National Anti-Poverty Organization (NAPO) is to
eradicate poverty in Canada by promoting income and social security for
all Canadians, and by promoting poverty eradication as a human rights
obligation.

**We believe** that poverty is a violation of the human right to
security of the person and, with reference to the Canadian Charter of
Rights and Freedoms and the International Covenant on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights, the legal right to security of the person. **We
further believe** that poverty is an affront to the values of fairness,
justice and the inclusion of all persons in Canadian society. We
therefore contend that for these reasons, poverty must be eradicated."

Website: <http://www.napo-onap.ca/>

### The Hunger Site

"The Hunger Site was founded to focus the power of the Internet on a
specific humanitarian need; the eradication of world hunger. Since its
launch in June 1999, the site has established itself as a leader in
online activism, helping to feed the world's hungry and food insecure."

Website: <http://www.thehungersite.com>

### United Way Canada

"<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-family: Arial;">The Movement is made
up of 120 volunteer-based **United Ways – Centraides** (UWs-Cs) located
in ten provinces and two territories and a national organization,
**United Way of Canada - Centraide Canada**. Its mission is “to improve
lives and build community by engaging individuals and mobilizing
collective action”.</span>"

Website: <http://www.unitedway.ca>

### World Job and Food Bank

"The primary goal of WJFB is to help the poor in less developed
countries to become able to help themselves. By creating
income-generating small work cooperatives, WJFB helps to provide jobs
and skills training for the poorest. These co-operatives have been in
the form of poultry rearing, sewing and dress making, desktop
publishing, and others.  Co-op members work together to develop and
market their product, and share in the profits. Once fully trained, they
can obtain jobs elsewhere, so that more needy people can join the co-op
and learn skills."

Website: <http://www.wjfb.org/>

### Save the Children

"Save the Children Canada has been working for over 85 years to bring
immediate and lasting improvements to the lives of children through the
realization of their rights. Save the Children Canada provides both
long-term development assistance and emergency relief. Wherever possible
we work closely with local community organizations to ensure lasting and
effective programs to benefit children and their families.  We partner
with local organizations, communities, government bodies and
international organizations."

Website:
[http://www.savethechildren.ca](http://www.savethechildren.ca/index.html "Save the Children")

### End Canadian Poverty

"End Canadian Poverty (ECP) aims to provide information about charities
and organizations that help Canadians cope with and overcome poverty. We
hope that summarizing this information will help you to locate food
banks, housing support and more if you are in need of these services.
Or, if you would like to help impoverished Canadians, through donations
of time or money, we hope that ECP will help you to find information
about a charity or organization that is right for you."

Website: <http://www.endcanadianpoverty.ca>

In the end
----------

It's up to us people. Poverty won't get rid of itself and only we as
people, we as a nation, we as a world can change things. I'm
exceptionally thankful to be in the financial and economical position
that I am, and I'm damned lucky to be here. What's my excuse for not
helping out? I don't have one, and I'd be hard pressed to find anyone
that did have a passable reason.

Get out there and let's destroy Poverty.

<p>
<script src="http://blogactionday.org/js/7073c9ad7ca30c06b33b6fdb7d4dc65dea36cc23"></script>
</p>

