Title: Breakdown
Date: 2008-09-11 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Personal, Writing
Tags: Breakdown, fiction, Personal, short-story, Writing
Slug: breakdown
Status: published

He's confounded at the situation. One second she was wrapped about his
arm, snuggled up tight and secure; the greatest feeling in the world, so
far as he can tell. How quickly that was shattered, like a delicate
glass so unceremoniously thrown to the ground, the peace was splintered
into a million shards; irreparably damaged. He didn't see it coming,
that's for sure. He didn't even say anything this time, though maybe
that was the problem. Maybe he didn--

She grabs him by the wrist, and ungraciously wrenches him from his
contemplation. Her nails are digging into his wrist now and she doesn't
care. Let him feel the pain, maybe then they would be on the same page.

She's just as confused as him, though. She got so upset so quickly that
she forgot what she could have been so enraged about. Tears glisten in
her eyes like the gleam of sunlight refracted from a stiletto, beautiful
yet undeniably dangerous. She can't back down now. If she did, she would
be wrong. She would be showing weakness. She would be vulnerable,
exposed for him to see the real her. She wasn't ready to do that; not
for him. Not for any man. She had done that before, and the ending had
resulted in her heart being ripped into gruesome confetti, thrown about
in a parade of her own sadness. No, he didn't need to see her like that.
He wouldn't see the inner-most her. He didn't deserve that from her. She
had to keep up this embarrassing tirade, losing face with all these
strangers that didn't even know her, doubtfully even cared. She had to
keep going, she just ha--

He removes her taloned, manicured nails from his wrist. He's wincing
against the pain he feels inside. The gashes on his wrist are nothing
compared to the hurt his heart is now assailed with. He's been through
this before with her. He would fold, he always did so to save himself
the trouble of dealing with the real problem and her issues. He always
assumed she would open up to him in time. How much time does she really
need though? She's always so defensive and always seems to have a
penchant for rivaling the tectonic plates for the damage she could, and
invariably would, cause. This wasn't the first time this happened, but
this would be the last. His heart felt like an old rug: worn down,
stained with one to many accidents, and showing wear from too many
verbal beatings. He can do better then this, and he knows it.

She's sobbing now. She always did so when he started to show spine, to
show promise of being an actual man. She wasn't ready for that yet, and
she knew that the tears would give him pause. Stop him in his tracks
better then any physical chains could do, they always had. The tears run
down her blotchy cheeks, forging yet another trail of deceit down the
fabric of their relationship. She needed him. She knew it. She'd never
tell him that though, and so the tears flow slowly, in a sickly majestic
rivulet.

He's looking away now. He never could face her tears, it made him feel
terrible whenever he even thought of it. This time was different, it had
to be. Enough was enough. This was it, and he knew it. This time it will
end differently. This time he would tell her what he felt, how he felt.
He glances at her and sees the tears. He wavers for a moment. It feels
like he's standing on the edge of a precipice with no visible bottom.
Then it happens. It starts from his heart, bursting forward like a dam
in a storm that cannot be held back by mere bricks and mortar. It climbs
up his throat and he can't stop it, wouldn't stop it if he could. This
needed to happen, for both of them. It explodes from his mouth in a
quiet hurricane of words and feelings. Both intertwined with such
reckless abandon that neither can be distinguished from the other. He
screams at her without screaming, he assaults her with his indignities
without volume. In reality, his voice is barely above a cracked, sobbing
whisper, but his ears can barely take the tumultuous thunder that is his
agony. His words a compilation of his malformed feelings for her.

She's stunned. This was wrong, so very wrong. He was supposed to break
down and apologize, he was supposed to beg for forgiveness, and he was
supposed to fold like a cheap hand in poker. This was wrong. Instead of
her coming out the victor of this senseless battle, she is now beset by
a wall of truths. She can't tune out what he's saying; her body has
betrayed her. Her ears force her to listen to all that she has wrought
and it twists her insides in a manner more becoming of a neglected
blender. She's losing, and there is nothing she can do this time. Her
tears glisten to a man blind to her sorrows. Her voice falls on the ears
of a man deafened from one too many audible assaults. She's lost.

He turns from her, having said his peace. There is nothing left in this
carcass of a relationship. Let the carrion feeders make short work of
what was left of that derogated past. He was done with this atrocious
mess. He was done with the agony. He was done with her.

She wouldn't let it end like this. How dare he walk away from her,
leaving her like this? She won't allow it! She reaches out and grabs his
arm, turns him around with a strength borne of her scorn. She would set
him straight. She would make him feel her pain.

He glares at her. She disgusts him now, and he won't put up with this
anymore. He didn't deserve it, and wouldn't take yet another serving of
a dinner long gone rancid.

She slaps him with the back of her hand, putting all her frustration
behind it, all her malice behind it. Everything she had, she put into
that one connection. He stumbles, being so unprepared for the blow. He
catches himself and stands tall. She goes to slap him again, but he's
faster. He doesn't care what kind of scene he's in now, nor does he care
about the bystanders. He winds up and returns the unwelcome gift to her
just as righteously.

She hits the floor, stunned. He hit her, and she couldn't bring her mind
to comprehend it. He was so kind and sensitive. He was everything she
wanted and needed, and yet she had brought him to that.

He's shaking. The urge to vomit valiantly tries to overwhelm him, but he
manages to maintain a shambling semblance of composure. He turns around
and walks out her life. Out of the life he knew. He holds his cheek and
smiles. That was that for him. The final curtain has drawn for this
tragedy, and his part in the play was over. He could move on and he
would move on; he deserved that. She deserved that

She's shaking. He was gone, and she was left with nothing. The
bystanders watch her as she sobs to no one and nothing. She weeps for
herself. The final curtain has drawn for this tragedy, and her part too
was over. She could move on but wouldn't. She wouldn't give him the
satisfaction of moving on. He didn't deserve that. She didn't deserve
that.

Then the bystanders lose interest and move on. They didn't deserve that.
