Title: Designapalooza - Part Two
Date: 2007-11-23 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Design, Self-Improvement, Technology
Tags: Art, Designapalooza, Graphic Designer, Learning, Part 2, School, Technology
Slug: designapalooza-part-two
Status: published

### Table of contents: {#toc}

1.  [Location, location, location](#location)
2.  [The time of your life](#time)
3.  [Facilities are all the rage now](#facilities)
4.  [Course load reaching critical mass, captain](#course)
5.  [Schools gots'ta represent, yo.. um,G. Slice... dawg](#represent)
6.  [Money money money money money money money money money money
    money](#money)
7.  [The gut factor](#gut)

### 1. Location, location, location {#location}

This may not seem like a big influence to some, but an opportunity to
expand your horizons and experience something new and exotic. Both are
very true, but come with a price (which I cover in more detail later)
which is literally, the cost of it all. Sure going to a school across
the ocean sounds like a great idea, but try and remember it costs money
to apply, get a student visa, fly over there *and* back, living
expenses, etc.

If you can get past the cost, try and remember the culture shock
involved with it all. Going to a school 5 hours away may not seem like a
fair distance, but trust a man who drives 5 hours to see his girlfriend.
*It is*. It can affect your relationships with people, how often you get
to hang out with your old chums, and see your family. This may of course
be a boon in some people's eyes. I'm not here to judge, merely to point
things out.

Regardless, of if you go to school 5 hours away /fly across the country/
another country/ the other side of the world, you're going to experience
culture shock. From my experience, people take this in one of two ways:
they either embrace the new culture and soak it in, or they go half-nuts
and deny the alien society. Be careful with where you go and research
foods, customs, culture, etc., before you go. You'll thank yourself
later.

Don't go somewhere just to see it; that's what vacations are for. Weigh
the pros and cons of your locations before deciding on anything.

[Back to top](#toc)

### 2. The time of your life {#time}

I'm not talking about [the having
type](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXXQK59wD9c "Time of Your Life"),
but your literal existence in your own personal time-line. Sure people
say that if you wanna go for it, just go for it and be damned to the
rest of the world. Though this is a wonderfully romantic notion, it
could screw the next 5-10-15 years of your life. Heck yeah! Going to the
premium school was a great idea! Too bad you did it without saving any
money for it and ended up taking out a student loan that would make the
rich weep. Now you've got a great education under your belt, and you're
stuck in financial bondage for the next x amount of years in your life.
Things won't look so shiny then. It may have been worth it personally,
but you're lifestyle will suffer.

I'm not saying that you should have every penny paid off before you go,
but stop and look at your situation before you embark on the education
train. Maybe it would make more sense to go in 6 months? You know, when
you've saved up at least some sort of slush fund? Try and make sure you
have a place to live, something to eat, and a backup plan before you
start. That way if everything goes down the crapshoot, you're not
totally screwed.

Taking extra time is also good for you to sit down and really consider
your options. Do you really want to go to school for that field? Are you
sure? What will it do for you? Is this for personal or professional
growth? Will you get anything out of it in the end? These are all
questions you should answer honestly to yourself. The answers should be
more then one sentence long, and without an exclamation point on the end
of them. Criticize your own points to see if they stand up against
argument.

Step back and look at your life before deciding on going to school. It's
a drastic change and needs to be approached with maturity.

[Back to top](#toc)

### 3. Facilities are all the rage now {#facilities}

Physically scope out the school. Don't be surprised when their 'rustic
and natural' location means they're in the middle of nowhere and have
bear sightings every 18 minutes. Go to the schools you are interested in
and walk around them. Walk through them to. Examine the classrooms (if
you can). Ask the administration desk if there are guided tours; if the
exist then take them. Ask a load of questions and don't be shy. If these
schools wants your blood, sweat, tears, time, and hard-earned money,
then by golly they can answer your questions.

Check out the faculty as well. Make sure that they're up to snuff. Just
because they school has award-winning teachers does not mean that they
know how to teach worth a damn.

Make sure to ask questions that directly affect you. What's the parking
policy? What sort of computers/whatever technology you need do you use?
What hours is the school open? What sort of library do they have? What
is the school capacity? etc. etc. Write down your questions before hand
and bring paper to jot down the answers if you really need to. Being
informed about the school will go a long way in helping you decide.

[Back to top](#toc)

### 4. Course load reaching critical mass, captain {#course}

Check out your course load from the schools website or if you're feeling
Luddite, their printed catalog and see what's in store for you. Most
schools will offer similar courses, but the difference is in the fine
print. Read the descriptions of all the courses, as well as the
expectations and what you should be walking away with at the end of each
course. If you've gone to school before, see if you have any
transferable credits. This can help ease your course load even if it's
only by one or two courses. Not all schools will accept transfer credits
let alone from every school known to man. Make sure that the courses are
offering what you are expecting. You'd be amazed at what they'll pass
off in the fine print.

Find out the duration of the entire diploma. Sometimes the extra year
can make a huge difference for your eventual career. Sometimes it won't
make so much of an impact that you can't go back at a later date and
upgrade. You should weigh these options when deciding on a school.
Sometimes it worth not going for the extra year for the moment. Other
times you'd be a fool not to. Judge that years courses and compare it to
your life goals.

[Back to top](#toc)



### 5. Schools gots'ta represent, yo.. um,G. Slice... dawg {#represent}

Ask around about the schools you are interested. Asking the school will
only allow them to stroke their ego in your face. Ask people who are
going there, if you can. Read summaries and critiques others have
written about the school. Look for the flaws but don't amplify them,
just make sure you know what they are. On that same note, make sure you
know what the school does really well. Not what's in their mission
statement, but from what people have said and accomplished there. I
don't care if you have a professor there that cured AIDS, can they
actually teach? It's fantastic that you've got a great gym and health
centre! Why do you still have a wing of 386 desktops though?

Find out what the admission requirements were like. Sure they say they
only wanted 10 pieces, but what ones are they biased to? Sure you needed
an 80 to be considered, but how many people in the course actually had
an 80? Just because the school says they need something, doesn't mean
there aren't strings attached.

Get the dirt on your schools. Maybe you like dirt. Maybe you are, by
nature, a dirty person. I have no idea. The important part is to make
sure you don't only pay attention to the sunshine that all schools claim
shines from their butts. I'm fairly certain that at least one of them
claim to be made up entirely of rainbows and candies as well. Just be
informed.

[Back to top](#toc)

### 6. Money money money money money money money money money money money {#money}

Ever notice how words lose their meaning when you write them out of
context?

I could probably write a whole section on money alone, but I won't. The
fact is that money will play a big factor in your choice of education.
Sometimes going to the 50k school for the name on the certificate isn't
worth the pain in the wallet that it will cause. Schooling that forces
you to take out big loans to complete will only slow you down once you
finish school. If you have to take out loans, find ones that provide
student rates, don't start collecting until you are done school, and
then make sure to spend as little of it as possible. If you want to try
and beat the system, you could take the money you're not using, and dump
it into a high-interest savings account. At least there it will grow a
little and make paying back the loan that much easier.

Compare prices between the different schools, and make sure to ask why
there is a difference. Make sure you check to see what "additional"
costs they are going to tack on. Some programs require you buy a
uniform, or a computer, or other tools that are not mentioned in the
advertised price. It's sort of like buying a car, except you can't
negotiate at all, or trying to bribe the one straight-arrow cop in
Detroit (I have no idea how crooked the cops in Detroit are, if at all.
I'm just giving an example). If one school is drastically lower or
higher in cost, find out why. Sometimes the cost could be worth it
(though somehow I doubt this is a common occurrence.)

If you can, save up as much as you can before you go. This will allow
you to help pay off bills, tuition, or just pad your pockets while your
in the long haul. Having a personal slush fund is just a smart move. You
don't know when you're car will break down, or when you'll need to drop
a good amount of coin on a project. By saving as much money before you
go, you will lessen the pain that you will experience from day to day
life.

Having said that, you'll probably have to learn how to be cheap. I'll
admit that I'm a bad spender when it comes to buying food, which is
something I am fixing. I did a little self-study back in the day, and
found I was dropping about 300 bucks a month on food alone. This isn't
even grocery food we're talking about here. This is me simply buying
lunch in the cafeteria every day. Maybe throw in a snack too. 10 dollars
a day doesn't seem like much at the time, but it adds up.

A good habit that I found is to spend physical money. It helps you watch
as your dollars are flitted away on everything. Stay away from using
plastic for your purchasing of smaller items. you'll quickly start to
curb your spending. It'll also help you become a more critical thinker
when it comes to buying anything. It will help develop that little voice
in the back of your head that says things like "do you really need that
5th burger?" or "Seriously, watching your buddy eat that month old
lasagna isn't worth twenty bucks ... is it?" (I'm going to be honest and
say that I would indeed pay money to see my friend eat month-old
lasagna. I'm a horrible being sometimes.)

Spend smart, and spend little. Compare school prices and course costs.
Aim for low loan interest rates, and don't be late on any payments. That
will very quickly ruin your credit rating.

[Back to top](#toc)

### 7. The gut factor {#gut}

I know I've given a lot of tips and advice here, all of which you can
take with a grain of salt. In the end it all comes down to you. If you
go to a school and you get a bad feeling ***don't ignore it***. Man kind
has more going on inside then we realize, and trusting our gut instinct
is a lost art. After you've weighed your options go and search yourself
and see what feels right. Going with that option will probably end up
being the better choice for you on a personal level. Sometimes going for
what feels right will allow you to have a much fuller experience in your
schooling over going to the "better" school. Just because it's better
doesn't mean it won't suck to be there.

[Back to top](#toc)

Trust yourself and you shouldn't do all that wrong. If however you hear
multiple voices, either turn down the headphones, or seek medical help.

This is the second part of an ongoing series depicting my process to
becoming a graphic designer. Next up is how you can help yourself get
educated at work before you get educated.

-   [Part
    One]({filename}designapalooza-part-one.md "Designapalooza - Part One")
-   Part Two (Currently reading)
-   [Part
    Three]({filename}designapalooza-part-three.md "Designapalooza - Part Three")
-   [Part
    Four]({filename}designapalooza-part-four.md "Designapalooza - Part Four")
-   [Part
    Five]({filename}designapalooza-part-four.md "Designapalooza - Part Five")
-   Part Six]({filename}designapalooza-part-six.md "Designapalooza - Part Six")
-   [Part
    Seven]({filename}designapalooza-part-seven.md "Designapalooza - Part Seven")

