Title: Front Mission - Square Enix (2007)
Date: 2009-04-20 09:30
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Game Reviews, Nintendo DS, Reviews
Tags: 7/10, Front Mission, Game Reviews, Nintendo DS, Square Enix
Slug: front-mission-square-enix
Status: published

Oh [Front
Mission](http://na.square-enix.com/frontmission/ "Square Enix: Front Mission").
I've always had a love/hate relationship with your series. How can one
franchise give so much joy, while sapping someones will to live so
readily at the same time? I played my first [Front
Mission](http://na.square-enix.com/games/FM3/ "Square Enix: Front Mission 3")
game back on the original PlayStation. It was actually the third in the
series, but that mattered little to me. Within that game was a breadth
of customization and unit control that up to that point I couldn't have
dared dream of.

Don't even get me started on the side-quest goldmine that it was. It had
it's own "Internet" that came with spam, conspiracy theories, and
hackable government systems. It had a solid story line, an excellent
battle system, and some decent (for the time) graphics.

[Front Mission
DS](http://na.square-enix.com/frontmission/ "Square Enix: Front Mission")
(which apparently is a re-release of the original) has none of these
things. Well okay, not none *per say*, but far less than my first
experience. It did manage to be just as frustrating though, so that's
something.

<!--more-->  
So when I found out that Front Mission was coming out for the DS, I
nearly wet myself in anticipation. As previously stated, I had good
experiences with the series, so I was all hot and bothered over the idea
of a portable version that could provide me hours of entertainment on my
- until recently - dormant DS. After finally playing through it, I think
I can actually give an unbiased review of the game.

Well, probably can in any case.

Synopsis
--------

Piloting Mechs - Wanzers in the Front Mission universe - the goal of the
game is to work your way through increasingly difficult battles by
strategically killing everything without dying. It sounds far more
simple than it is.

Like every Front Mission I've played (3,
[4](http://na.square-enix.com/games/fm4/ "Square Enix: Front Mission 4"),
and now this version) there are two story lines in Front Mission DS. The
first is for "new" players, and you are in control of one Royd Clive.
Long story short, he becomes the leader of a band of mercs who work for
one of two waring factions (the O.C.U.). As the game progresses, Royd
realizes that past events are not all they've added up to be, and
eventually goes on a vendetta to get his answers.

He's a little bit of a whiner, and I had serious troubles connecting to
him. The whole time it feels like he needs a good slap and to grow a
pair. Yes, I'm aware that he's part of an elite killing squad of mercs,
working for the army. You can still be a sissy when you have a gun.

Anyways, his claims are verified, and you then have the uphill battle of
getting to the finale in order to fight the hidden evil forces. Not that
you really have to guess to hard at who's pulling strings; the game
practically forces it into your brain.

Now the second story arc, that's a different story (see what I did
there?). In this instance you play the roll of Black Ops. Seargent Kevin
Greenfield. After an unfortunate pang of puppy-dog love, he's discharged
from his position, and is sent into the field as part of the U.C.S.
Scout Team. As the story works its way forward, you are given additional
characters - cannon fodder, as I called them - to bolster your ranks.
Unlike the first story, where everyone is trying to win the spotlight,
the second scenario focuses directly on Kevin, and everyone else just
plays a part to support him. He ends up trying to bring down a corrupt
government, only to fail and be tried for treason. That's not the end of
the story, but I'll leave it there for now.

Now this is a man I can pretend to be! He's got character, he's got
soul, he gets some good, solid revenge in his story arc. He even loses
the woman he loves (more than once). This story grabbed my by the neck
and forced me to play through it, which hurt because the second story is
for "advanced" players.

Basically, "advanced" players is a fancy way of saying "insane odds" and
"completely irrationally difficult." You get half as many units, and you
fight twice as many. All. The. Time. One map I played had 4 of my men
against no less that 16 or 17 enemy units. That requires some top-notch
organization let me tell you.

get\_leader

Mechanics
---------

This section could get terribly long, should I let myself ramble. I'll
try and keep my rantings to a minimum here, okay?

The stylus is useless. You can use it, but much like one can stick ones
hand into an operating blender it brings forth the old adage: Just
because you can, doesn't mean you should.

So there's no Internet in this version. Not something I'm terribly sad
about, but the whole Net thing really added another layer to the overall
story. It allowed the user to go out and find so many more tidbits of
information that you could live without, but made sweeter by knowing.

The battle mechanics are far simpler than those of later versions. You
don't need to worry about the direction you're facing, and hiding behind
buildings does not provide additional cover. All cover is calculated on
your dodging ability, and the tile your unit is on. Part of me loved
this, and a part of me really missed it. They've also dropped many of
the skills that you can acquire throughout the game, as well as who can
learn what skill. Not everyone can actually be an effective killing
machine (they make for good repair drones though).

The battles take just as long as they always did - minimum of 15
minutes, maximum of 1.5 hours - and are just as infuriating as they
always were. It's not uncommon to lose a battle without knowing why or
how, but I've managed to distill it down to three possible reasons:

1.  Your main character(s) died. Everyone else can eject just fine, but
    God help you should your main character have to try and eject.
2.  You ran out of time. A few of the missions require you to do
    something along the lines of "Kill X by Y." very straightforward.
3.  Someone got away/got to a point they shouldn't have.Â  A few of the
    missions require you to stop people from getting to certain points
    on the map. These are the hardest in my opinion.

The weapons system has been toned down as well as altered for this
instance of the series. Rifles don't shoot over long distances, making
them effectively pointless. Shotguns only fire one shot (instead of, you
know, a spread) making them almost useless. Their saving grace is that
the have a 98% hit rating. Rockets can win an entire scenario if you
upgrade them enough. Machine guns can win an entire scenario of you
upgrade them enough. Melee weapons are in shockingly short supply.

On top of that, you don't upgrade a proficiency in "shotgun" or "machine
gun" anymore. Now you just get points in "melee" or "short." This made
the diversifying player in me weep. You no longer need specialist units;
set everyone up with the exact same rig and go to town. It's really a
bit of a let down.

The virtual reality simulator doesn't exist in the DS version, which
makes upgrading your guys outside of battle an extreme chore. You're
stuck fighting in the arena, which doesn't net you nearly enough
experience to warrant it's existence. The only reason the arena can
possibly exist is because you can bet money on your pilot and win some
cash. This is, sadly, a requirement for the first story. Upgrading 14
Wanzers gets bloody expensive, and you really do need to keep your parts
up to snuff.

They game is not without some hope though; there are hidden missions
(three to each scenario) that are actually somewhat difficult to find.
They are usually the most challenging levels in the entire scenario, and
usually the ones with the best payout. If you can find and complete
them, you are rewarded with special Wanzer bodies that tend to be well
worth the effort. If nothing else you get cash and experience for doing
them.

Oh, and last but probably not least, after you defeat a scenario you can
play through it again on a harder difficulty. Why would you do this?
Other than bragging rights - if anybody listened - you get to start off
with all of your characters having the same abilities as before. This
means you can basically walk through three quarters of the game becoming
even more powerful. There is also a secret mission (per scenario, I
think) that you cannot access until your second play through. You can
play through again and again, until you hit x10 difficulty, but why
anyone would do that to themselves I have no idea. The option is there
though.

get\_leader

Word from the Wise
------------------

I'm adding a special section here to give a couple tips to people who
have decided to try their hand at Front Mission.

***Choose a fighting style, and stick to it.*** I cannot stress this
enough. You like rockets? Use them all the time and get your Long range
leveled up. Eventually most of your units will learn Duel, which allows
you to target body parts. Aim for the body for quick kills. Going short?
give everyone machine guns and learn Speed and Duel. Those together can
take down almost anything in one go.

***Don't use rifles, they're not worth the money.*** It uses the "short"
skill tree, but only fires one shot. I found things worked much better
with a machine gun. More chances to hit, and they add up. If you simply
must use a one shot weapon, wait for the shotgun; with a 98% hit ratio,
it's in your best interests to look them up.

***Keep repair stuff on you.*** The computer has a knack for ganging up
on your people, most of the time when they should be attacking others.
Use this to your advantage, and keep repairing your cannon fodder for as
long as you can. The longer they last, the longer your other units can
go unimpeded.

***Gang up on targets.*** Until your units learn how to kill something
in one go, try and gang up effectively on units. If you can, pin them in
so they're sitting ducks. I tried to send my weaker units in packs so
they could grind some experience while my one-shotters made quick work
of everyone else.

***Use the special Wanzers.*** Pick one of your pilots, and dump them
into the special Wanzer models. You get most of them for completing
secret missions (go look them up), and when used properly, they become
killing machines. Enemies will speak shell-shocked stories to their
pillows about the giant Wanzer that ripped them appart without showing a
dent. They usually get picked on, so when you can make sure you have a
repair buddy with them. Legends don't make themselves you know.

Overall
-------

It took me 20 hours to beat the first story. This was because of the
upgrade/money requirements, and really took a chunk out of the whole
"fun" aspect to it. It turned into grinding way too quickly. The second
story was far more enjoyable and I worked through it in around 9 hours.
I'm even tempted to play through the second story again.

It's not as complex, diverse, or rewarding as other items in the series,
but it did its job without too much complaint.

7/10
