Title: Juno (2007)
Date: 2008-01-07 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Movie Reviews, Reviews
Tags: 2007, 9/10, Belle And Sebastian, Buddy Holly, Ellen Page, Jason Bateman, Jennifer Garner, Juno, Kimya Dawson, Michael Cera, movie, Movie Reviews, review, Sonic Youth
Slug: juno-2007
Status: published

Over the Christmas holidays, Theresa and I went to our local
[independent movie
theater](http://www.princesscinemas.com/ "Princess Cincemas"), and
watched [Juno](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0467406/ "Juno"). I have to
say that it's easily one of the best films I watched in 2007. It was
sweet, funny, and potent in all the right spots.

The movie Juno is about one Juno MacGuff ([Ellen
Page](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0680983/ "Ellen Page")) and Paulie
Bleeker (the ever master of awkward pauses, [Michael
Cera](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0148418/ "Michael Cera")) and their
joint child-making. The movie takes place during the nine months of
Juno's wonderful adventure through pregnancy, and her interaction with
the adoptive couple Vanessa and Mark Loring ([Jennifer
Garner](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0004950/ "Jennifer Garner") and
[Jason Bateman](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000867/ "Jason Bateman")).

Admittedly, not the most accurate portrayal of someone being pregnant
that I've ever seen, but the movie uses the pregnancy as more of a means
to an end rather than the focus. Juno (the girl) is apparently unable to
carry on 80% of her conversations without busting out a (admittedly very
funny) one-liner. Putting that aside, the rest of the movie is quite
solid and worth every penny I spent on it. Juno maintains a good pace
and has fantastic closure at the end, something that I have found
lacking in recent films that I have viewed.

I do have to say though that I'm pretty sure the movie was written with
Michael Cera in mind. No one else could have played his character
better. I am sad to think that he has unfortunately type-cast himself to
being "the awkward guy", what with doing it so well. Shockingly though,
his roll is only a minor one which I appreciate because it allows the
focus of the film not to be distorted with his role.

The other thing that I have give mention to is the [soundtrack to this
movie](http://www.amazon.com/Juno-Original-Soundtrack/dp/B00104W8T6 "Juno: Original Soundtrack").
It's a solid collection to begin with as it sports such artists as
[Belle &
Sebastian](http://www.belleandsebastian.com/ "Belle And Sebastian"),
[Kimya Dawson](http://www.kimyadawson.com/ "Kimya Dawson"), [Buddy
Holly](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buddy_Holly "Buddy Holly"), and even
[Sonic Youth](http://www.sonicyouth.com/ "Sonic Youth"). What makes the
album that much better is that after you have seen the movie you can tie
so many of the songs to cute moments within the film. That is really
what makes this soundtrack shine, though it's pretty solid standing on
its own and it even offers a cover of one of the songs direct from the
movie featuring Michael and Ellen themselves on the guitar and vocals.
It's cute, if not a bit off sound-wise.

Totally worth seeing, and I implore everyone to watch it. It's one of
those movies that will mostly go under the radar from daily viewing, but
is an complete and utter gem. Solid acting, cute story, and a wonderful
soundtrack make this movie absolutely worth it. I plan to own it the
second it comes out onto DVD.

9/10
