Title: Kam
Date: 2008-09-22 09:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Personal, Writing
Tags: fiction, Kam, Personal, short-story, Writing
Slug: kam
Status: published

I was always a loser.

Seriously, I was. I got picked on at school for every possible reason:
Mamas boy, nerd, totally out of style, ugly, etc. etc. The usual stuff,
I know, but it hurt all the same. High school wasn't any better. I never
had a girlfriend. Hell, I barely had friends, and they weren't exactly
the socialites of the century either. Like minds stick together and all
that I guess.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->  
Once I got into the real world I drove a crappy car, because I couldn't
afford a nice one with the crappy pay from my crappy job. I barely even
got the job I had, and only because the shear mass of my pathetic life
weighed down on my bosses conscience so much that it'd have been like
kicking a three-legged puppy while it was down. Don't get me wrong, I
loved my job and the people I worked with. It was just crummy pay, which
resulted in the crummy car.

I did manage to move out on my own, but much like my car, my place
wasn't exactly fantastic. The roof leaked, the tap leaked, the shower
leaked... pretty much anything that could leak, did. On top of that, it
was above an Indian fast-food joint. This resulted in everything I owned
smelling a tad too strongly of every kind of curry and spice known to
man, and all at the same time. It had one window, and it was small.
Really small. Insanely, stupidly small. I paid too much rent for it, but
I was too much of a sucker to say anything.

I hadn't kissed a girl until I was 24, and I won't even bother
embarrassing myself further by going into the details of my non-existent
sex life.

Suffice it to say, I was pathetic in every possible way. I was the
definition of ‘last place'.

Then I met Kam.

Kam was a girl. Kam was a girl I met at a coffee shop while waiting in
line in a coffee shop to buy a coffee that was far too exotic and far
too expensive for me. I had had a rather good day at work, and I felt
like treating myself. She was in line behind me, though I only found
this out after I had bought my way-to-expensive drink.

As I turned around, our eyes met.

I was in love, simple as that.

As I walked past her, I knew that she was 'The One.' I had to talk to
her. I had to talk to her and find out her name and what she likes and
what she hates and if she had pets and if she liked to read. There were
a million other things I wanted to ask her, but at that moment I slipped
on a wet tile and went down like a sack of potatoes.

---

When I came to, I was still on the coffee shop floor; my coffee raising
the price of the tile that it had spilled on, and many a gawking person
hovering over me. Kam actually had the decency to try and help me up. It
took a couple tries as I was slipping far too much. She told me to sit
still because I was bleeding, and it would probably be best to get a
doctor to have a look at me. I'm pretty sure I agreed, but the whole
thing is a little hazy. I remember asking her name (Kam), but after that
I forget. From what I gather I passed out.  
---

When I came around again, I was sitting in a gurney. Kam was sitting
there, as worried looking as anything but hadn't noticed I was awake. I
managed to steal a couple moments to appreciate her.

She wasn't the cutest girl in the world, but she had a charm about her
that blew me away. Just looking at her nearly brought me to tears,
though that could have been the endorphins wearing off. Time slowed as I
took every part of her in: her eyes, her hair, her skin, her mouth, even
the way she sat. Everything about her was breath-taking.

Then the doctor came in, and time resumed it's normal speed. He used
some of that faux ‘trauma doctor charm' and said that he was glad to see
me conscious. Not exactly a high bar, but it was good enough for him. He
asked Kam what happened as he didn't trust me to retell the tale. He had
a look at my head and said that I was indeed going to need a couple
stitches. He left for a moment, and returning with a nurse in tow, he
told me to turn around so he could "patch me up."

When the doctor had finished stitching me up, which took a couple tries
because apparently my scalp rejects local anesthetic, he told me that
I'm lucky I didn't have a concussion and that my friend was smart to
call paramedics. With that, he disappeared through the doorway to treat
some other person with minimal enthusiasm.

Kam asked me if I was okay, and I asked her if she wanted to go get
something to eat.

I didn't expect myself to say it. Asking her that showed way more
confidence than I actually had. I still blame the fall to my momentary
lapse of Loserdom. She was so blind-sided that she actually agreed! My
first date in years, and I got it from a trip to the hospital.

If only I had known it was that easy.

---

We walked to a little diner near the hospital, because neither of us had
transportation. I had ridden in the back of the ambulance, and
apparently she had as well.

We started to talk, awkwardly of course. I asked her about herself, if
she had pets, if she read, and about three percent of all the questions
I wanted to ask her. In turn she asked me similar questions, and we
ended up having a lot in common. It was at this point that my previous
feeling of The One had been confirmed. I had to be with her, and that
was that.

Finding a diner, we went inside and got some late breakfast. We finished
dinner, and I asked her whether I could see her again in a less
hospital-related way. In a shocking turn of events she said yes, and I
nearly choked on my much-less-expensive coffee. She thought I was cute
in an awkward, nerd-next-door sort of way. I decided to take this as a
compliment and asked her for her number. She scrambled through her
overly-large purse and dug out a pen and paper. She scribbled her number
down, handed it to me, and then somehow managed to flag down a near-by
taxi.

This girl was magic.

I walked the 43 blocks home.

---

Our first date is something that was so wonderful, so pure, that it will
forever be burned into my memory. We met at a park half-way between our
homes. I brought a picnic basket filled with the nicest foods I could
afford. Granted that didn't really add up to much, but as Kam put it,
"It's the thought that counts, silly." I can believe in that.

We met with it feeling almost like it was the first time all over again.
We walked down a wide path surrounded by trees, both of us afraid to
start talking. Mothers with strollers would walk past us, giving us
knowing looks. Children would run blindly past us oblivious of the
awkward air that they too would have to deal with when they grew older.
I listened to the world, trying to glean some knowledge from the winds
and the trees and the dirt.

She broke the silence by asking me how my day had gone, and told me
about hers. I couldn't trust myself to talk much, so I listened. I
didn't mind being the silent one since It's something I'm used to. No
one bothers to pay attention to me, so I end up being a listener
anyways. She was thankful for someone who was such a good listener. Who
would have thought that being ignored for a good portion of your life
would finally pay off?

When we came to a nice clearing, I set up the picnic and we sat down to
eat. The sun was just moving through the trees providing us with a
semi-shade, and the wind blew through the leaves softly, creating music
that you can only hear in your memories. If the day could have been any
more picturesque, there would have been little ragged mice with violins
playing to the side, tears in their eyes.

As we ate, I made it my mission to sit beside her. Juvenile I know, but
I didn't have much experience at this. Back to basics and all that. My
self-induced mission took roughly 2 hours of eating, drinking and
conversation, all the while my minds wheels turning on how to find any
excuse to move closer. She either didn't mind or didn't notice; I assume
she knew what I was doing but let me do it. She was always so
understanding; she could read me like a book.

I made her laugh, and she made me smile. I told her jokes that I had
heard, and she told me about her life, and the little things that made
it special to her. I told her she was special, and so special things
naturally came to her. She blushed, and I blushed, and we sat there on
the ground silently competing for who closer match the shade of an
apple. This would be later be my fondest memory within what is already
my fondest memory.

As the sun started to set amongst the trees, and the winds started to
cool, we opted to pack it in for the day. If I had had it my way, we
would have sat there until the ends of the earth. She made everything
brighter and more wondrous. She opened my eyes to all the little things
I never appreciated. Her laughter was music, and her smiles fought the
sun.

We packed the food and the wrappers; the forks and the plates. I folded
the blanket we sat on and stood up. We walked back to the entrance to
the pack in silence, listening to nature sing us to the end of the date.
The air was no longer awkward, but full of magic and a creeping joy. I
would have jumped and clicked my heels if I hadn't been sure that I
would have fallen right onto my face. I opted for allowing my insides to
vibrate in happiness.

When we were parting ways, I stumbled over myself asking of she'd had a
good time, if she was happy, and if she'd like to go out again. I know I
got all three questions out but they may have all been one word. She
laughed, put her finger on my lips and shushed me. She brushed her hair
behind her ear and leaned towards me. Before I knew what was happening,
she was kissing me. This soft, electrifying, burst of joy. It wasn't a
hard kiss, or even a long kiss, but I returned it, and for a moment in
time, everything in the world was right.

We separated, the world returning to normal. I watched her walk out of
the park and hail another taxi.It was only after I watched the taxi
leave that I had no idea if I would see her again.

I still think she did that on purpose to make me call her again.

---

After a couple months of dating, we were officially mad for each other.
We had done all the stupid cuddly stuff that hideously cute couples do
together: going to the beach, going to carnivals as I spent way too much
money wining her a stuffed animal (I'm not a very good throw or aim),
watched the night sky, the whole lot.

We were together whenever possible.

The best part about it was that I didn't feel like such a loser when I
was with Kam. She was so cute and smart that by simply being around her,
I felt smarter and cuter and not as much of a loser. She helped me find
a nicer place, helped me find a better car for the same money, and even
convinced me to ask for a raise at my job. She turned my life around,
little by little.

In return I gave her the only thing I could offer: myself. If she ever
needed help with anything, I was there. If she needed laundry picked up,
I was already on my way. If she needed someone to call in sick to work
for her, I was on the phone. Whenever she needed to cry about something,
I held her like it was the end of the universe.

We were in love like it was the only thing that mattered.

---

Eventually things got more… intimate. After dating for nearly a year,
our occasional snogging had been pushed further and further into an
adult-oriented scenario. I'm not going to gloat about it or release any
sullen details because I don't need to. Our love was progressing
physically as it was mentally.

One night after going for an evening walk and getting ice cream (again,
very sickly cute couple) we came back to my place and things got a
little more serious than usual. We made it onto the bed, and after some
tossing and turning, It happened.

It was wonderful, magical even. All of our emotion and our love was
concentrated into that one moment, and for a split second we became one
person. I know it sounds corny, but that's honestly how I'd felt at the
time.

As we lay in bed after, we just looked at each other for a while. Things
were different now; we'd crossed that line and there was no going back.
This wasn't like a one night stand (which I had never had, thank you),
or a fling. This was the real deal. As our eyes stared into each other,
I asked her if she'd like to move in with me because I wanted nothing
more than to wake up to those eyes every morning.

She started to cry, punched me lovingly on the chest, and called me a
‘sappy idiot.' I just smiled and said "If you want to call me that,
that's fine. Just say yes." And you know what? She did. Between her
happy sobs, she smiled at me and I knew that I had achieved the one goal
I had ever set for myself. I would be with this girl forever. I've
managed not to screw everything up, and now she's going to be with me
forever.

We slowly fell asleep holding each other, and I cherished that moment
more than anything else in my life.

---

Then I woke up. I was laying in a gurney. I looked around and found that
I was alone in the room. I had an I.V. stuck in my arm and to my shock,
I found myself in hospital clothing.

Suffice it to say, I started to panic.

Just then a nurse came in and gasped when she saw me failing around. She
ran out of the room, and moments later burst back into the room with a
short, Asian man whom I learned was a doctor.

"My my," he said "Not too often people pull through after an injury like
that."  
"I'm sorry, what? An injury like what?" I had stammered, now freaked
out well beyond any normal scale.  
"Your head wound. You may not remember but you had a nasty fall and
cracked your head open. Luckily someone called 911, and you were rushed
here."

My mouth went dry. "When was this?" I squeaked.

"Oh about... let me check your charts." He flipped through the clip
board hanging from the end of my bed, "about ... 37 days ago? So a
little over a month?"

A month. I had been unconscious for a month. I had been laying in that
bed, in a coma, for just over a month. Everything I had thought was real
wasn't. I didn't have a nicer place, a nicer car, or a raise at my job.
I hadn't done sickly cute couple things. I never won any stuffed
animals. I had never been to the diner.

I cried then. I cried like I had never cried before nor have i cried
like that since. I shook the gurney with my sobs, my insides crashing
about my chest. My nose ran and I gasped for air. I cried as my world
ended.

I never met Kam.

I never did meet her. I went to that same coffee shop every day for
months, but never saw her again.

I could deal with having a crappy place, a crappy car, and a crappy job.
I could deal with being a loser with no hand-eye co-ordination. How
could I deal without Kam? I loved her.

I still love her.

And I can still feel her when I fall asleep.
