Title: L.A. Noire - Rockstar Games (2011)
Date: 2011-05-26 22:09
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Game Reviews, Miscellaneous, Reviews
Tags: 9/10, Big Band, Film Noire, L.A. Noire, Rockstar games, XBox 360
Slug: l-a-noire-rockstar-2011
Status: published

I am not a fan of [Rockstar
Games](http://www.rockstargames.com/ "Rockstar Games"), generally. Not
to say that they don't do good work, but their usual fare just isn't
something that I can enjoy for more than about 10 minutes. Grand Theft
Auto 3 and onwards always felt tedious (regardless of how much you can
personally achieve in it), and Red Dead Redemption just seemed like the
same thing, but with cowboys.

The whole 'open world, do what you want, oh by the way there's some
actual story here if you wanna play it' model never really did much for
me. It's neat and all, I get the appeal, but I never really got into it.

So then they start talking about L.A. Noire, and my first thought was
"oh good, GTA in the 1940's but this time you're a cop and will get shot
at by bad guys instead of the other way around. Yawwwwn" and promptly
ignored it. But then they started releasing the trailers for L.A. Noire,
and I watched them. And then I watched some more. And then I started
reading about what L.A. Noire was really going to be. A detective game,
but with chases, shakedowns, shooting, and moral implications.

Then I got excited.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/la-noire-logo-410x228.jpg "L.A. Noire")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/la-noire-logo.jpg)

I've read many a thing about [L.A.
Noire](http://rcm-uk.amazon.co.uk/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=000000&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=0000FF&t=walofscr-21&o=2&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=B004MPR5NE "Amazon.co.uk - L.A. Noire for the XBox 360")
since it's come out, but the best one I've found so far is "It's Phoenix
Wright, but with claws" and I think that's a very good way to put it.
L.A. Noire is, at it's core, an adventure game. You track down clues,
you talk to suspects, and you try and make an arrest. That is the core
of L.A. Noire, and it does it very, very well.

It still has the city-driving that GTA-lovers will enjoy, but you cant
just walk into random stores and talk to people, you can't just shoot
everyone, and (as far as I know, being 60% done the game as of this
writing) there's no actual involvement of your home life. You apparently
have a wife and kids, but I've yet to see a trace of them.

You're also punished for running into people, smashing cars, and
destroying property. Yeah, that's right; you can't just go flying around
like a maniac, decimating the city in a manic attempt to bring it under
your heel.

Synopsis
--------

The year is 1947, you've come back from the war, and joined the L.A.
police force to act as a beacon of hope and fortitude in this crazy
city. You're a go-getter though, you don't just do what you're told, but
make the extra effort to make sure things get done and done right. This
moxy gets you noticed by the higher up detectives, and you are told to
"get yourself two suits, and get them pressed." Soon you're starting
your illustrious career in the detective world, interviewing folks and
finding clues.

Gameplay
--------

The game splits up the gameplay into 'cases'. You can only have one case
going at a time, which I think was done to keep your head from
exploding. The stories can get fairly intricate, and trying to do them
all at the same time would probably kill you. Each case opens with an
in-game cinematic of the crime itself, but done in typical noire
fashion; that is to say that  you never see the perp, only the end
result of their mis-doings.

The mechanics of the game can be broken into five sections: Free-roam,
Clue finding, Interviewing, and The Chase, Intuition

### Free-roam

Yes, you can drive around the stunningly re-created 1947 L.A. should you
choose to. There are some incentives to do this as well. There's all the
monuments you can find (30) film reels you can hunt down (50) and the
badges for those that pre-ordered the game (20?). On top of that, there
are 95 different vehicles to drive, and 40 street crimes to address.

Having said that, when you are on route to a destination and a street
crime pops up... well driving across the city is only fun the first
time. Especially when cars don't get out of your way, even when you've
got your siren on. Really, most of the free-roaming should be left to
the end game, so that you can find everything without worrying too hard
about the costs you will wrack up at the end of the case.

### Clue finding

[Rockstar](http://www.rockstargames.com/ "Rockstar Games") must have
thought hard about how to handle this. The reason I say this? They did a
damned fine job with it. When you enter a clue-gathering session, the
music goes into 'detective mode' and your character walks slowly. You
walk around until a small cue (rumble and staccato music flourish) when
there's something to investigate. The catch is that not everything needs
to be looked at. Much of the time, they will be random items that do not
pertain to the case. But if you want to find all of the clues, you'll
look over everything, like I do.

When you pick something up, you can move it around, looking for
important details. On top of that, many clues can be further
investigated, which can reveal even more for your case.

All the relevant clues are then logged in your little black book for use
during interviews.

[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/he-likes-em-younger-410x230.jpg "L.A. Noire - He likes em younger")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/he-likes-em-younger.jpg)

### Interviewing

Interviewing people is an enjoyable, if somewhat frustrating part of
[L.A.
Noire](http://rcm-uk.amazon.co.uk/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=000000&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=0000FF&t=walofscr-21&o=2&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=B004MPR5NE "Amazon.co.uk - L.A. Noire for the XBox 360").
When talking to someone, you will be given 3 options when any exchange
has ended. You can assume they're telling the truth, you can doubt what
they're saying, our you can call them on a lie. Only one of the options
is correct.

If you think their lying, but you've got no proof, you can use doubt.
That's what this is really for. It took me a while to understand what
they meant with 'doubt.' I thought you would ask further questions when
in fact it's more or less calling them a liar without calling them a
liar.

When you call someone out on a lie, you've got to pick the proof that
backs up your claim. This gets harder as the cases go on, because you
start amassing a lot of evidence and it becomes somewhat more difficult
to find what evidence backs your claims. As it stands some items in your
roster never actively come into play, but sit there, ruffling their red
feathers at you.

When you pick the correct answer, you'll hear a certain piano tinkling
of keys. When you pick the wrong answer, you'll hear a different,
slightly more depressing tinkling of keys. It only takes a couple
screw-ups to have these sounds embedded in your skull.

### The Chase

More often than not, you'll have to run down a guilty party. They
*always* run. *Always*. It's irritating at the best of times. You either
run people down on foot, which usually results in a football tackle; or
by car wherein either you smash the hell out of their car and they
crash, or the game feels sorry for you and eventually smashes them into
something for you.

Thankfully, if you're terrible at chasing people down (as I am with the
car chases) the game will only force you to try 3 times. After you've
failed that many times, it gives you the option of skipping it without
any demerit applied to your end score. Now, I'm a stubborn bastard, so I
haven't used this yet, but I'll admit the 2 times that the option has
been offered... well it's been tempting. I wouldn't blame anyone for
taking the game up on the offer; it lets you focus on all the other,
more entertaining parts of the game.

### Intuition

Intuition is an interesting concept. It's basically a way of applying a
gut feeling, when you've not got one yourself. In less fancy terms, you
can use it for 2 things: revealing all the clues in a location (like a
crime scene), or to remove one of the 3 options when interviewing
someone. I should state that it only removes an option for that specific
talking point, and not for the entire conversation. It also strikes out
any evidence that doesn't pertain to a lie in that conversation branch.

I've used intuition enough during the game, and there's no shame to it.
Some people are just really hard to read.

Graphics
--------

[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/takin-photos-410x230.jpg "L.A. Noire - smile, Miss Corpse")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/takin-photos.jpg)

In some ways, [L.A.
Noire](http://rcm-uk.amazon.co.uk/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=000000&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=0000FF&t=walofscr-21&o=2&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=B004MPR5NE "Amazon.co.uk - L.A. Noire for the XBox 360")
is amazing to look at. The [obscene amount of work they've done with
facial
scanning](http://www.engadget.com/2010/12/17/l-a-noires-amazing-motionscan-facial-capture-system-demonstrat/ "Engadet - L.A. Noire face scanning")
really shines. If they don't use this technique in every game after
this, they're insane. It is really, really good. And that's important in
a game that bases a good bulk of itself around reading peoples faces.
You can't skimp on that, and Rockstar did anything but.

The rebuilding on L.A. is impressive as well.
[Rockstar](http://www.rockstargames.com/ "Rockstar Games") has a habit
of making their game environments as realistic as possible, and L.A.
Noire is no exception. They pull this off by using whatever they can.
With GTA, they drove around and took pictures. With L.A. Noire? They
used [extreme
vintage aerial photography](http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/using-extreme-aerial-photography-1920s-rockstar-rebuilt-1940s-los-angeles-la-noire "Popsci - How L.A. Noire Rebuilt 1940s LA").
*Yeah.* They found a huge stash of vintage photos taken by a half-insane
aerial photographer, and used those to make their L.A. as close as they
could get it. They've done a really good job of it, too.

They've also done a swell job with the cars. Then again, this shouldn't
come as a surprise, as a good part of their fortune is based on a game
that involves a lot of car stealing/driving/destroying.

But then there are things that just don't quite do it for me. Namely in
the people. Despite the amazing facial work, the body mechanics have
some work to be done. Everything ends up being jerky, regardless of how
much motion capture they do. There are also some textures that seem
really low-rez, despite the fact that so many others are super crisp. If
they can capture these things, they'll be set.

The Writing/Storytelling
------------------------

[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/this-cant-end-well-410x230.jpg "L.A. Noire - this can't end well")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/this-cant-end-well.jpg)

When Rockstar wants to make a game as close to a [film
noire](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Film_noir "wikipedia - Film noire")
as they possibly could, they've done a pretty bang-up job. A lot of
obvious care has gone into the game, and that really shows in both the
writing, as well as the directing of each and every scene.

There's not much I can say about the writing other than it's fantastic.
It's accurate to the time (which means there is a lot of speech that
lands itself right in the middle of 'totally inappropriate' territory
with the modern day). It works perfectly for [L.A.
Noire](http://rcm-uk.amazon.co.uk/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=000000&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=0000FF&t=walofscr-21&o=2&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=B004MPR5NE "Amazon.co.uk - L.A. Noire for the XBox 360")
though, because it's a time piece so Rockstar can get away with pretty
much anything.

Something that really needs mentioning though isn't so much the writing
(once again, fantastic), but the art direction and scene directing. Now
I've not played much of Rockstars fare (as previously stated) but I've
got a feeling that they usually do a good job with directing. However, I
think it's safe to say that due to the noire aspect to the game, they
really had to step things up a notch.

The direction given in this game is some of the best I've ever
experienced. I actually care about the outcomes; I care about the
characters I should care about, and I dislike the ones I'm supposed to
dislike. I am putty in the hands of Rockstar with L.A. Noire. The long
cinematic scenes aren't agony to watch, in fact it's quite the opposite:
I *look forward to seeing them*.

As any avid game would know, most of the time the cut scenes are the
boring bits that try and convey a story in-between the fun bits. Such is
not the case with L.A. Noire. No no, you watch these scenes, soak them
up, and that makes the fun bits just that much more fun.

Music
-----

I've always been a fan of [Big
band](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_band "Wikipedia - Big Band") and
the like, so I think it's safe to say that I'm a fan of the music in
L.A. Noire. But just mentioning the ambient music you hear in cars,
diners, and piped through the radios of 1940's L.A. would be a sin. It
would be a sin because the actual music that was composed for L.A. Noire
is really, really fabulous. It's stunningly good mood-setting music.
From the low, eerie tones of the investigation, to the fast-paced chase
music, the composed music for L.A. Noire is stunning.

Issues
------

[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/car-chase-410x204.jpg "L.A. Noire - everyone's a rally driver in L.A.")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/car-chase.jpg)

Despite the obvious amount of gushing I've been doing about [L.A.
Noire](http://rcm-uk.amazon.co.uk/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=000000&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=0000FF&t=walofscr-21&o=2&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=B004MPR5NE "Amazon.co.uk - L.A. Noire for the XBox 360"),
there are a couple issues that really annoy me. It's like having a
fantastic burger served up to you, but then finding a topping on it, say
*tomatoes*, that just takes away from the whole experience.

Also yeah, I'm not a fan of tomatoes. *Deal with it*.

Issue the first is the inability to save when you want. I'm not sure
what the reasoning behind this was, but the fact that I can't save
between looking for clues and then interviewing people really bugs me.
Especially since I'm a completionist, and want to get every conversation
right. The game more or less picks and chooses when to save, and you've
no control over it what so ever.

Hell, lets say you just wanted to free-roam around, and wanted to save
at a specific part of the city. That's a decent enough request right?
Well too bad. You don't get the option. The game saves when it wants to,
and you've got little control over it.

That said, I have found save 'areas' that seem to trigger the save
ability. These are usually outside of the station or investigation
areas. This of course assumes the game is going to let you waltz out of
the area without failing you. You've been warned.

My second issue, which has become infinitely more irritating for me is
the driving. Not just driving around town, which can be irritating and
dangerous as it is (people don't really move out of the way, even when
you've got the siren on). No my issue is that everyone you chase in a
car seems to become this amazing rally driver, able to pull turns that
don't make any sense. They're obviously scripted, but there is no way my
car can pull the stuff they're pulling.

The result?

I end up smashing into cars, lamp posts, and anyone on two legs. This is
not a good thing. It negatively affects the end of case results and
ranking. I mean I'm not a good driver in games at the best of time, so
forcing me to rally race around a heavily populated L.A.? Yeah, that's
not going to end well.

Tailing on that last one, I'll lump my last issues together: People are
too fast. Every car goes as fast as my squad car with the peddle
floored, and everyone I have to run after seems to become
an Olympic sprinter. This includes the 70 year old man I had to gun
down, as well as the fat motherfuckers that I've chased all over hells
half-acre. It makes no sense!

Overall
-------

A fantastic game, and I'll happily purchase all of the DLCs as they come
out. There are only a couple issues, and I can deal with them mainly due
to the fact that the rest of the game makes up for them by being
*totally bad ass*. If you're into detective games, good story telling,
and compelling stories, I'd suggest you grab yourself a copy of [L.A.
Noire](http://rcm-uk.amazon.co.uk/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=000000&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=0000FF&t=walofscr-21&o=2&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=B004MPR5NE "Amazon.co.uk - L.A. Noire for the XBox 360").

9/10
