Title: Mass Effect: The first series I've ever finished
Date: 2012-11-04 19:27
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Game Reviews, Reviews, Xbox
Tags: 7/10, 8/10, 9.5/10, Mass Effect, XBox 360
Slug: mass-effect-the-first-series-ive-ever-finished
Status: published

I've played a lot of videogames in my time. Not as many as some, but
I've been playing console games since I was 3 (at least that's as far
back as I can remember). I've played Sega Master System games, I've
played old 386 PC games, I've played my share of SNES, Playstation,
Gamecube, etc. etc. I've played a whole lot of 'em. But one thing I've
never really done is played a collection of games all the way through
their storyline. I was never good enough at Ultima Underworld, my
computer couldn't handle Warcraft 3, Starcraft 2, or the recently
released Diablo III. Hell, even IPs that exist for the Xbox don't
generally entice me to finish them.

I look at my shelf of games, and I see a whole collection of games that
just couldn't keep me engaged: Gears of War, Lego Batman, Bioshock 2,
Blue Dragon; the list goes on and on. Most of these fall down on the
part that will keep me playing through the worst gaming experiences:
Storyline.

I'm a sucker for a well-constructed, properly delivered storyline. You
can give me some pretty terrible game controls, some god-awful camera
work, and some of the worst textures, and I will endure if your story is
compelling and gets me to give a crap. This may sound like something
simple to do, as I'm generally pretty open to some far-out storylines,
but you would be wrong. I'm probably the most criticle of shoe-horned,
akward, or generally stupid plot points that serve only to play on a
persons emotions. I cannot generally abide by such tools, and it's the
reason many of the unfinished games on my shelf are there; mediocrity in
tale-spinning.

So why Mass Effect? What made me give not one, not two, but three (or
more if you count DLC) shits about such a franchise? <!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

[![And so it
begins](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-410x307.jpg "Mass Effect")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect.jpg)

I'm not going to go through each title and list off all the choices I
made and what brought me to where I am now. Hell, I couldn't do that
unless someone actually laid each and every one out in a flowchart, and
handed me a highlighter and told me to go to town. My memory just isn't
that good, it'd take too long, and you'd all fuck off well before I
finished.

Instead I'm going to point out the things that stuck with me, good and
bad. That's all.

First, some back-story
----------------------

I only played [Mass
Effect](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B001TUYA74/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B001TUYA74&linkCode=as2&tag=walofscr-21 "Amazon - Mass Effect")
when I moved to London. I was desperate for some cheap titles to pick
up, as we had little in the way of extra money, and our tiny, one room
flat would have quickly become a murder scene if I didn't have some sort
of distraction. I recalled Mass Effect getting reasonable reviews, and
my friend Richard was head-over-heals with it when it came out. I
figured "eh, what the hell" and picked up Mass Effect for four solid
British pounds.

I figured that at that price, I was willing to give an otherwise unknown
IP some of my time. I didn't research it before hand, read anything
about it, or do anything other than impulse purchase the title. This is
important to note, because whist I had no expectations on its grandure,
it was also going to have to work its ass off to impress me.

[![Everyone look
important](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-wallpaper-1360-410x256.jpeg "Mass Effect - assemble")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-wallpaper-1360.jpeg)

Next, the shortcomings
----------------------

The Mass Effect series is in no way perfect; hell I'd even say aspects
of it can be damned near busted. Mass Effect (the first title) suffered
the most, as you would expect, but Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3 had
their issues as well.

One major issue with all of the Mass Effect games is the decision-making
vs alignment system. With very few exceptions every choice comes down to
three ways:

1.  I'm a nice guy, and I'm totally sensitive to what you have to say;
2.  I don't care about anything, I'm just here for the money; and
3.  Fuck you, fuck your mother and fuck everything else. Also I like
    frowning all the time.

The worst part about the choice system is that there's never a gray
option at the time. Everything is clearly good or evil. ME3 was the only
one that started forcing you to make the hard choices; the choices that
had a cost, regardless of which way you went.

[![Shepard, Thane and
Miranda](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-2-2025-410x256.jpg "Mass Effect 2 - Drama")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-2-2025.jpg)

[Mass
Effect](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B001TUYA74/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B001TUYA74&linkCode=as2&tag=walofscr-21 "Amazon - Mass Effect")
featured an overly complex weapons/armour system that took way too long
to be any fun; a combat system wherein your partners were no better than
cannon fodder; a world-exploring car basically made of galvanized
rubber; and just some god-awful texture issues. You spent far too long
micro-managing both on and off the field.

[Mass Effect
2](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B001RIYMIU/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B001RIYMIU&linkCode=as2&tag=walofscr-21 "Amazon - Mass Effect 2")
simplified the weapons/armour system, cleaned up the textures some, and
made your teammates slightly less brain-damaged. It did, however, start
introducing a whole slew of conversation glitches that caused sprites to
disappear, look in the wrong direction, or otherwise freak the hell out.
This has a somewhat detrimental effect on specific scenes where emotion
was trying to be conveyed and one of the people in the conversation is
cross-eyed or missing. It also had some of the oddest mission sticking
bugs of the series. ME2 is also when EA introduced the Cerberus system,
which meant that anyone buying the game used got fucked over a barrel in
added costs.

[Mass Effect
3](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B004T8C3NG/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B004T8C3NG&linkCode=as2&tag=walofscr-21 "Amazon - MAss Effect 3")
re-complicated the weapons and armour a tad, jacked up the conversation
glitches, and added a whole slew of 'You can't really die here unless
you're trying to lose' moments that frustrated me on a deeper level.
They dumbed ME3 down a lot for the larger audience, and given the hours
I'd invested at this point, it really got to me. They also introduced
the galactic readiness platform, which more or less forced your to play
online, even if you weren't overly keen on doing so. You could always
get the (not free) iPhone app that allowed you to up your galactic
readiness level by 1-2% over a 12 hour span. Oh boy!

Then there's the ending, which a lot of people took serious issue with.
I'll get to that.

So given all of these issues, why in the hell would I play? Because they
had a good story to tell, and by and large, they told it well.

[![The future sure it shiny and
tall](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-2-wallpaper-002-410x230.jpg "Mass Effect 2 - city scape")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/mass-effect-2-wallpaper-002.jpg)

Synopsis
--------

I'm not going through all three games. That would take way more time
than I'm really willing to give to this post. If you've read this far,
you probably know all the games, or find my writing utterly entrancing.
Regardless, you're getting a very trimmed back overview.

If you want to get more in-depth overviews, you can find them
[here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_Effect_(video_game)#Synopsis "Wikipedia: Mass Effect (Video game)"),
[here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_Effect_2#Plot "wikipedia: Mass Effect 2 (Video Game)"),
and
[here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_Effect_3#Synopsis "WikipediaL Mass Effect 3").

So in the distant future, Man-kind has had first contact, and is
travelling the stars. An ancient power (I'm not going to call them evil)
called the Collectors is slowly rising, and the only people who end up
knowing about it are you and your rag-tag battalion of mystery-solving
murder machines. Or teammates, it really depends how you play. Over the
course of the three titles, you, Commander Shepard, are slowly figuring
out who the 'Collectors' are and what their grand machinations add up
to. Turns out they recycle the universe every bazillion years, and
that's just how it's supposed to work. Order in the chaos. Shepard has a
different plan, and works to stop the cycle from repeating again.

Along the way alliances are made and broken, Shepard is killed and
reanimated with SCIENCE!, and the whole universe is dropped into an
utter shitstorm of death and chaos. Your grasping at straws eventually
works, and the universe is saved, but at a massive cost (personal,
physically, or evolutionarily).

[![The end of the world can take the smile out of
anyone](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/MassEffect3-410x230.jpg "Mass Effect 3 - Shepard")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/MassEffect3.jpg)

What they did well
------------------

Like I said, the Mass Effect team had a story to tell, and they did a
very good job of telling it. They tell the story from two distinct
angles: from Shepard, and from the universe. The universe spurs you on
by existing and by your little interactions with the plethora of people
that reside therein. Some of the best story-telling happened simply by
walking around and listening.

There are the stories like 'The Blue rose of Illium'' that showed such a
small story - literally about two people and their love for each other -
and how important something like that really is. You come across a woman
who hasn't heard from her husband in a while (he was sent on a mission).
Later on in a semi-side-quest you can happen upon a corpse with a
message, a poem, for his wife. You put two and two together, and can
deliver it to her to help her get closure.  It was so moving someone
with an exceeding amount of talent even made an [entire comic about
it](http://www.escapistmagazine.com/articles/view/comics/escapist-comics/9758-Blue-Rose-of-Illium "Escapist magazine - Blue rose of Illium") from
the husbands points of view. It takes you 30 seconds to do and no
effort, but it feels so important when you actually do it.

Then there's the side-story of the woman who witnessed her entire
platoon killed, as well as a family that took her in when she was
injured turned into husks by her former partner and wife (a sort of
reanimated zombie thing). She's deeply troubled, and slowly tells her
doctor about the experience over the course of the game. In the end she
claims she's better now, and asks to be reinstated. You are actually
given the option of putting her back in the field. *If* you choose to do
so, it turns out that she snaps and puts a bullet in her head because
she just couldn't take it. It's heart-breaking.

Then there's the story of the man who loses his leg and can't rejoin his
squad. The story about how a girl sold her sports car to buy her friend
better armour without his knowledge. The news reporter that you can
convert from posting slag stories to becoming and advocate for positive
action. There are even more, and all three games are brimming with
little side-stories like this. Little snippets of normal people, and you
can experience them if you choose.

Then there's the story from Shepard's point of view. The man on the
front; the man making it happen; the man that everyone asks everything
of and then some. His is a story that doesn't come into it's own until
the third game. His is a story where he makes the choices that the
universe will revolve around. He decides, quite literally, who lives and
who dies. His crew, who start of as fairly typical (the scientist, the
hard as nails soldier with a soft side, the war machine that wants to be
more, etc.) grow throughout the series and by the third game, you've
grown to love these people as you play Shepard. Shepard also becomes an
extension of you; they become Your Shepard.

That's what makes Shepards story so brilliant. If you play this game,
and actually pay attention to what's going on around him, you get
attached to your crew and friends the way any real person would. And
when they die (and some of them will die) you really do feel that loss.
I managed to avoid losing people through the first two games, simply
because I consulted the Internet and learned how best to run the suicide
missions to stop that from happening. Sadly when you get to the final
game, there's no way around it: people have to die, and you have to make
that decision. It's horrible, it's depressing, it's real.

Growing to love these characters can and will influence how you play
they story as Shepard; it has to. There's a point in Mass Effect 3 where
you have a final confrontation with an assassin. This man was the cause
of so much pain and suffereing, as well as the death of one of my
favourite characters: Thane. Thane dies in the third game and there's
not much you can do about it, but when you fight his assassin you have
the choice: kill him, or let him live. If I simply wanted to play they
good guy (which I did, mostly) I could have left him live.

However, he killed my friend. He caused so much pain, and in a snap
decision that I'm still proud of, I killed the bastard. It was an
emotional response, but it felt like the right one and it felt like what
My Shepard would have done. That's what the Mass Effect crew did so
well. They made me give a shit; they made me make emotional decisions
when I was determined not to. That's the power of a good story teller:
they made each win feel like a win, and each loss feel like a proper
punch in the gut.

[![Combat's not a pretty
thing](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/Mass-Effect-3-Spotlight-1-410x230.jpg "Mass Effect 3 - Combat")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/Mass-Effect-3-Spotlight-1.jpg)

And then the part where I talk about the ending
-----------------------------------------------

At the end of Mass Effect 3 you are given, at maximum, 3 choices for the
universe:

1.  Destroy all synthetic life. This will destroy the collectors, the
    Geth (an entire species of self-aware AI, and your
    ship/teammate EDI) This choice destroyed the jump relays.
2.  Control the collectors. You are turned into pure conciousness, and
    take control of the entire Collector fleet and then 'protect' the
    universe from any more mistakes. This option destroyed the
    jump relays.
3.  Evolve all live. You skip natural evolution and skip to the end of
    the curve. this option did NOT destroy the jump relays.

Everyone hated the ending of Mass Effect 3. People didn't like how
sudden it was. People didn't like knowing what happened to everyone
after the final choice was made. People didn't like that all the effort
they'd put forward didn't pay out. People didn't like that the end
choices weren't choice-y enough. People bitched and bitched and bitched
until the Mass Effect team relented and added some extra scenes to the
closing sequence, added an extra 'I DON'T WANNA' ending, and changed the
severity of the choices that were given to Shepard to make.

People need to *fuck right off*. With the exception of a single added
scene, nothing was gained from their changes except in taking the moral
difficulty out of the choices. They made sure to spell out that 'even
though the relays were destroyed don't worry the universe figured it out
and things went on.' They added big narrated explanations telling the
player that even though they just made a hard decision, **Don't worry
it's fine**. They also added a 4th option as a bit of a fuck you to the
wingers wherein you didn't make a choice and so the cycle was repeated.

This frustrated me so much. Before the update, you were left wondering
what your decision had wrought. Everyone complained about this, but this
is exactly as it should have been. Your character, Shepard, is dead.
They don't get to see if they made the right choice, so you as the
operator of them shouldn't get to see all of that either. They left
things ambiguous because you as the player shouldn't *need* to have
things spelled out for you.

Destroyed synthetic life and the relays? that sucks, but you did what
you set out to do. Decided to control the Collectors? Congratulations,
you're now living the Orwellian dream. You opted to merge life? Cool,
now all of the universe will simply stop evolving, which could put it
into a decay cycle where no one tries to strive to bet better and life
stagnates. These were the hard choices and what became of them.

The bitching of the masses changed all that though. Destroyed synthetic
life? *Don't worry, we can rebuild it all and everything's just fine*.
Controlled the Collectors? *Don't worry, you're a good dude and won't
ever lose touch with what made you human even in a millenia or anything.
It's all cool*. Merged life? *Don't worry, we won't talk about how life
can't evolve any further and upset you in any way*. The masses were
assauged with this, because they couldn't handle a hard, unsure future
after all the time they put into the universe.

I could. I made my choice. *I destroyed all synthetic life*. I killed a
whole race that I had previously fought to save, I killed my friend EDI,
and by God I killed the Collectors. It's exactly what my Shepard had set
out to do, and it came with a high cost. My Shepard couldn't take
control of the Collectors, and he wouldn't screw with the natural
evolution of species. He fought against all of those things, and in the
end that conviction came with a price. After the update and the watering
down of the choices, I still made the same choice because despite what
they did to the endings, it still didn't feel right and it upset me that
the Mass Effect team folded under the pressure. It upset me more that at
the end of this amazing story, people couldn't handle one last hard
choice, like they deserved some sort of respite at the end of it all
because if the time they invested.

That's *bullshit*. Mass Effect was a story about humanity, about hard
decisions, and about soldiering on in spite of how hard things got. Why
should it be any different at the end? Why, at the end of all this
struggle, this heartache, should the last choice be any easier? Because
Shepard deserves a happy ending because they worked hard? **No**, that's
not how things work. Shepard gave everything they had to do the best
they could, and that's how their story *should* have ended. It should
have ended with one last choice that he had to make on behalf of all
life in the universe. That choice shouldn't be easy. How can it be?

There's a movie called Stranger than Fiction. I won't bore you with the
details but the gist is that a man's life is controlled by an author,
and the end of her book requires that he dies. It's how the story was
supposed to end. She changes her mind at the last second, ruining her
story. The author admits it herself in the movie. That's exactly what
happened here.

I liked Mass Effects' ending the way it was, and not the way it will now
forever be.

[![Female Shepard is more terrifying than Male
Shepard](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/Mass-Effect-3-Fem-Shep-410x230.jpg "Mass Effect 3 - Female Shepard")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/Mass-Effect-3-Fem-Shep.jpg)

In the end
----------

I enjoyed Mass Effect immensely. It was a story about stories; a story
of hard decisions; a story that made things very personal for me,
because Shepard was my avatar, an extension of me into the lush universe
created by the Mass Effect team. Would I play it again? You'd best
believe I would. Would I play it differently than I did the first time?
I don't think I could. I made my story, my novel, my own tale, and to
play through it again and make all different decisions? It just wouldn't
feel right. I tried at one point to play 'evil' Shepard. I got through
about 10 minutes of it and felt gross. It wasn't my Shepard. I couldn't
be as invested in the story, and that took away from it. It's a better
story than that.

Mass Effect 1 7/10

Mass Effect 2 8/10

Mass Effect 3 9.5/10
