Title: My First Project: A Reflection
Date: 2008-05-08 00:02
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Design, Self-Improvement
Tags: business, Design, development, lessons, project, project management, teaching, tips, work
Slug: my-first-project-a-reflection
Status: published

### Know your time lines and stick to them

This is pretty straightforward people. *Know when you need to deliver*
things by (milestones, project builds, documents, etc) and make sure
they're delivered by that date/time. When things start slipping from the
timeline, then it just compounds as one section runs into another.
Believe me when I say that there is only so much overlap you can
orchestrate before something breaks. Think Jenga.

On that same note, make sure that your time requirements are accurate. I
cannot stress that enough. If you think something should only take you
an hour, give yourself 2. If you end up ahead of schedule, great! You've
just created buffer time for when something goes wrong. I'm not
advocating giving yourself a week to do a day-long job, but be
**realistic** with your time lines, not **optimistic**.

### Don't bother getting mad, you'll only give yourself a hernia

I learned this about half way through the project, which is depressing
because had I learned sooner I wouldn't be as sick as I have been.
Stressing out and getting upset by every mishap isn't worth the energy
expended to do so. The phrase "No use crying over spilled milk" has
never wrung so true as it has for me during this time.

I realized that getting upset doesn't do anyone any good, and only
serves to fray already shot nerves. Realize that thing's aren't going
according to plan, and plot out a logical course of action. I'm not
saying that you shouldn't care that your project is 1 hour before a
presentation to 100 important people and not working. Far from,
actually. What I'm saying is that muttering your last rights in the
corner as you rock back and forth in a fetal position isn't going to do
anyone any good.

### Don't play the blame game, but don't let things slide either

This was a big one for me. Throughout the entire project, my mantra has
been (and probably will always be for projects): "I don't care why it
was broken, so long as it's fixed now." What This means is that I don't
care who's fault it may or may not be. I care that the project is
continuing to move toward its goal now that the problem has been
overcome.

If someone's not pulling their weight, *fix it*. If someone made a
mistake, *tell them*. People are responsible for their action or lack
there of. That doesn't mean you should go pinning the blame on people
when something goes haywire. Explain the problem like an adult, and
approach it like an adult. Saying "You didn't do X so fix it now" isn't
going to get you the warm reception you're expecting. People get
defensive when you attack them head on, and this is how arguments over
stupid topics start.

### Think before you open your damned mouth

This one was/is hard for me. I have a habit of shooting my mouth off
when I shouldn't and I know it. This translates directly into how I work
with others, and I have to make a conscious effort to think about what
I'm saying and how I'm saying it. I've noted a couple times during this
project that I've sounded like a complete dick. I don't mean to, but
because I worded things badly it makes me look like a jerkhole.

Before you click the send button, open your mouth, or pick up the pen,
think. *Figure out what you want to say and how you want to say it.* Try
and make sure you're not being out-right offensive (unless that's your
goal) and be concise. Taking the extra five seconds can make the
resulting exchange that much easier.



### Write it down

There were so many times when steps in installation, documentation,
development, and God knows where else were overlooked, ignored, or
outright forgotten. If you happen to have the goldfish memory that I do,
you will benefit from this. Writing things down at least gives you a
paper-trail to work with. If you find yourself taking a lot of notes,
give them a time stamp. Use different colours of pens and/r highlighters
to signify different sections or notation types.

I've found that by the time I've taken to write down what I want to
remember, it's already locked in my head. The simple act of writing it
down seems to solidify the memory so that the note I just took is now no
longer required, as my brain has done its job.

Writing things down has the added bonus of allowing others to know what
you know. If you're not going to be around for a while, at least others
have your notes to work from. Sure they could be utterly insane to
anyone that isn't you, but at least it's something.

P.S. The same goes for commenting code.

### Pay attention

Try and keep tabs on where everyone is in their time lines. If you need
something from someone, make sure that when you need it, they haven't
swanned off to a meeting or vacation. There's nothing worse then being
ahead of the game, only to be brought back down or even pulled behind on
your deliverables because Adam McMoron has decided to try and get
Finance Girls number.

If you're in charge of people, make sure that they aren't playing
minesweeper or Facebooking their best friend thrice-removed. I know it
sounds stupid, but *if you give people a week to do something, they'll
find a way to make it last a week*. I'm not saying you need to have
armed guards holding their families hostage to make sure they're working
efficiently, but make sure you know what's going on. Schedule end-of-day
meetings, or set up mandatory emails stating what they've been doing. If
you want to get really stingy, find a time-logging program that you and
your underlings can use.

### Despite popular belief, assuming only makes an ass of you

*It's not their fault when you assumed something*. Assumptions are
guesses based on half-information and the ethers. *If you have to assume
something, there hasn't been enough communication*. If you find yourself
saying things like "He's supposed to be doing it" or "It should be here
monday" you are assuming. Words like 'should' and 'supposed' are bad
news.

You can avoid assuming by simply confirming what you think. If you think
the package will be here on Monday, call the postal service. If you
think that someone is supposed to be doing a job, ask them. The bottom
line here is that assuming will end up biting you in the ass. Sometimes
you assume right, but I assure you that most of the time you will assume
very wrong.

### Learn from your mistakes, lest you repeat them

During this project, there was a night that I was at work for **40**
hours. Why? simply put: *the shit got fucked up*. I cannot and will not
go into the details as to what happened or why, but suffice it to say
that bad time-management, assumptions and flat out bad luck found most
of the team working well into the next day. It sucked but we managed.

One month later, *it happened again*.

What the hell happened? Different problems, but many of the same root
causes. Assumptions were made, time was mis-managed, and we weren't
paying attention where we should have. As a result the work that was
scheduled for 9 AM didn't begin until 9 PM. There's no excuse for this,
and I won't make one. I know where the flaws are now, and I'll be
Goddamned if I'm going to let it happen again.

That's all for now. I'm sure when the project is totally finished, I'll
do a postmortem and regale you with even more fun tidbits that you can
use (or ignore, though that would be silly.)

#### Photo credit: [Stock.xchng - Jonathan Natiuk](http://www.sxc.hu/profile/jnatiuk "Stock.xchng - Jonathan Natiuk")
