Title: My new MacBook is so... white
Date: 2008-07-31 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Art, Mac
Tags: Apple, Laptop, Mac, MacBook, School, Technology
Slug: my-new-macbook-is-so-white
Status: published

Not at all.

For those who bother keeping up with my site, you will have noticed that
I've recently been [accepted to school for graphic
design]({filename}i-got-into-school.md "I Got Into School"). Now I never
actually saw any requirement for purchasing a laptop, and I prayed that
I had dodged that financial bullet. Turns out that I did no such thing,
as I was alerted via letter that I would have to purchase a
[MacBook](http://www.apple.com/ca/macbook/ "MacBook") for the course.

I was ... unimpressed to say the least. Not only did I not know I had to
purchase one (which would have affected my saving plans just a touch...
roughly 1400 dollars), but I was being told that I had to get a device
that I have little knowledge of or about. This does not make me a happy
camper.

### The start of it all

I bit the bullet and bought the standard
[MacBook](http://www.apple.com/ca/macbook/ "MacBook") (which I notice
they've "cheapened" since my purchase. Had I waited I would have saved
roughly 60 bucks. Woo.) I didn't get any bells and whistles, as I
figured I'd get them as I needed them. I placed my order, felt my wallet
give a death shudder, and felt rather dirty. Please note that this was
on a **Saturday**. It's important to the story. It told me that my new
MacBook would be shipping within the next 8 days (free shipping! YAY!)
and I could expect it 8 days after that. Fair enough, I thought.

So **Monday morning** rolls around and I get an email saying that my Mac
has been shipped. "Wow!" I thought, "that was fast." Alright I'll get it
next week, which will give me loads of time to get used to the bastard.
**Tuesday** after work, my mother hands me a letter saying that
Purolator had come and missed me. "That can't be my MacBook. It's only
been a couple days!" **Wednesday morning** I woke up early, swung by
Purolator, and picked up my mystery package.

It was my MacBook. My order went from 16 days down to 3 days (4 if you
include me getting it the next day). I have to admit that turn-around
time like that is nothing short of herculean. My mind was blown, and I
figured that Apple was working extra hard to try and convert me.

So what do I think of my new computer-turned-art?

.postList

### It's pretty.

From the second I opened it, to my current use of it (this blogpost has
been entirely done via the new Book, as a bit of training for me) the
whole thing has just been so damned pretty. no, not pretty; *sexy*. Sexy
like that 23 year old teacher with the low cut tops. Sexy like the rich
guys car down the street that he bought to make up for his useless
penis. Sexy like those dreams that you don't tell anyone about while
you're washing your sheets at 3 in the morning. That sort of sexy.

### Everything works pretty much the way you expect it to.

It took me five minutes to get it all setup and started, which is
something that the PC user in me geeked out over. The wireless setup was
simple, and within moments I was up and running. Programs run smoothly,
and I've yet to experience any crashes or oddities. All the weirdness is
reserved for the input devices.

### New buttons ahoy! Fuck you normal other buttons!

Where the hell is my **Home** key? How about my **End** key? **Paging**?
nope, not there. Oh wait it's all *multi-key combos* now? Excuse me
while I blow my brains out. Why the hell would you remove common keys
like that? Stupid users (like me) are used to them on their keyboards!
I'm still getting used to using the function, alt, control, and option
keys to do different things.

Now to rag on the mouse.

Whether it's mighty or not, the mouse for the mac makes me want to kick
puppies while flipping off an old lady all while stealing money from a
blind beggars money can. The fact that I have to use the mouse in
conjunction with the keyboard angers me so very, very much.

I'm a lazy person, I shouldn't have to plug in a third party mouse that
has a left, right, and middle clickwheel just to get what has become
standard functionality. Even with the improved "two-finger" options
built into the touch pad, I still find myself having to jump between the
two inputs. This is not what I call simple, nor sexy. This failing sits
in the "granny-panty" section of the sex market.

### Built in programs are ... cute but useless

iCal: sucks. TextEdit: Weak. Mail: Sucks, Front Row: totally useless.
Preview: Waste of time. The list goes on. Don't get me wrong, I like
that there are basic versions of commonly used things... but there is
such a thing as too basic. I ended up having to get more robust programs
to handle everything. Not a bad thing, but somewhat annoying.

### The battery lasts for-fucking-ever

Seriously now. When a battery can clear the **4 hour mark *while playing
music***? That's just impressive.

Overall I think I like it, though I'll reserve my comments for until
*after* I've had to do some serious work with it. I'm sure I'll swear at
it as much as I swear at PCs.
