Title: One More Day
Date: 2009-07-02 09:30
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Personal, Writing
Tags: One More Day, Writing
Slug: one-more-day
Status: published

Flecks of dirt hit the casket.

Her father grabs some dirt from the pile, while her mother sobs;
screaming and rocking; her body wracking. The priest finishes his piece.
Her mother drops to her knees. The priest is speaking his part, his tone
never wavering. The casket is lowered down, to where it will rest. The
pallbearers carry the casket towards the grave site. A collection of her
friends and family stand around the hole in the ground, silent and
still. The Priest is already there, waiting. The hearse pulls up, and
the doors swing open. Cars start pulling up, first the family car, then
friends and extended family.

The Pallbearers load the casket into the hearse.

The ceremony has ended, and the crowd parts for her family to pass
through. The Priest reminds everyone to celebrate the passing, not mourn
the loss; his words fall on deaf ears. Her friends step down from the
microphone, voices fading. Her friends talk about the good times, and
how fantastic a friend she was. They start to cry as they talk,
unashamed and unaware of just how strong their tears flow. Her friends
talk about when they first met, when they had their first fight, all
their silly promises, and when they went to the cottage that one time.
Two girls are asked to the microphone, to talk about her.

Her fathers heart breaks a little more.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->


Her father steps down, slowly, shaking; hands and face ashen and
shattered, smeared with tears and mucus. He finishes speaking and his
words echo in the room: "If I only had known that I'd only have one more
day..."; the soft sounds of mourning breaking the silence, yet adding to
it. He talks about how much he misses her already. He smiles as he talks
about the time she got into a fight with a boy down the street. He talks
about how his daughter wanted to change the world; all the dreams and
aspirations she had. He stands silently for an eternity; a minute. He
walks to the microphone, and grasps the podium with his hands. Her
father stands, slowly, and stands for a moment.

The priest asks her father to say a few words.

The Priest ends off his prayer. He asks God and the angels to receive
her, to protect her and to watch over her. He states that though we do
not understand his plan, God does, and that is enough for his flock. The
Priest prays, and the congregation half-heartedly follows along. The
music ends. Her favorite song is played over the PA system while the
crowd shuffles in. Her family tells the Priest that they're ready for
everyone. Her father, mother, sister, and little brother talk to her.
Some of her close friends approach the casket and sniffle as they talk.

Her family and close friends enter the funeral home.

Calls are made and flowers chosen. Her mother and father struggle to
pick a casket for their daughter. The funeral director opens the door,
sits them down, and starts to explain some of the options that they
have. Her parents stand outside of the funeral directors office, hand
hovering above the handle; turning it makes it real. They make their way
towards the main office, their faces muted, their bodies shrunken and
gray. They walk through the hallway of the funeral home, looking around
at the flower arrangements and the emotion-neutral paintings. Her
parents enter the funeral home, breaking down on its steps; cars passing
by as they crumble.

Her family pulls up in a silver car.

They don't sleep all night; they haven't slept much since the call. Her
father stands in the doorway to her room, the door frame supporting him.
Her mom is crying into her pillow, her screams and sobs muffled. Dust
motes hover in the air, disturbed from their meal, their rest; vultures
circling their dinner, circling their home. Her clothes lay on the
ground, untouched since she got changed a few days ago. Her mom
collapses on her bed, unable to form the words to articulate her grief.
The door opens, and her mother stumbles in, knowing the pain will
multiply, but unable to do anything else. A mosaic of photos on the wall
shine from the streetlights outside.

Her cellphone lays on the pavement, bleating and shaking, waiting for
it's owner to pick it up, to answer.

The grass is painted a dark shade of red. Glass shards cover the ground,
the pavement; turning this quiet street adding to the nightmare
landscape that's been formed. The smell of gas hangs in the air; the
silence broken by the sirens in the distance. A man runs out of a
near-by house, having witnessed the crash, phone in hand as he runs.
He's ejected from the car, his life ending as he soars for the first and
last time. The cars connect, rending metal and grinding parts losing
function, losing their identity. Tires scream in protest, but to little
avail. She screams as their cars come together, unable to change
direction in time. He flys through the stop sign; he doesn't even see
it. He doesn't know what's going on. He's quickly losing control, his
car swinging between invisible obstacles.

She rounds the corner, signal blinking innocently.

He drives down the road, swerving slightly; the smell of gin hanging in
the car as a fog. He struggles to get the key in the door of his car,
stab, stab, stab. He mumbles to himself as he sifts through the filth in
his pocket for his weapon of choice, his hand eventually finding the
cold metal he was seeking. As he closes the door, he considers locking
the door but decides against it; if people want to steal his stuff, he
can at least get some money from the insurance. He grabs his jacket from
the floor, and jams his feet into his worn and tired shoes. He's going
to show them what they've done to him; it's all their fault; they did
this to him.

The bottle tips over, purged of its contents.

He drops the bottle on the table, scouring; he's made his decision. He
throws the phone at the wall, watching as another part of his life
shatters. He hangs up; hand shaking. He continues to argue on the phone,
his brain gagging on the fuel provided to it. He alternates between rage
and sorrow as he barters with the voice he hears on the phone. He
doesn't bother saying anything, the voice on the other end knows to just
start talking at him. He picks up the phone and wills his thumb to press
the 'talk' button. The phone rings, a noise all to familiar by this
point. Nothing good has come from it. As he lays on the couch, his life
in tatters around him, day time television plays in the background
displaying other people with other problems; a vain attempt to feel
better about himself. He hasn't moved in two hours, not since he brought
the gin from the freezer.

She sets off down the road.

She kisses her dad on the cheek as he hands her the keys; she's visiting
her friend. She's already calling for her parents as her foot hits the
first step on the stairs. She gets changed, running around her room, her
favorite song bopping along from her cellphone. She closes her
cellphone, happily clicking shut. She asks if they can get together, and
they decide on a coffee shop five minutes down the road. Her friend is
back in town for school, and wanted to surprise her. Her friends
Internet connection hasn't been working for the last couple of months,
and her cellphone fell in the toilet, which explains the radio silence
that they had. At first she's mad, as her friend hasn't talked to her in
a while, and there was no explanation. She answers to find a friend she
hasn't heard from in a couple of months on the other side. Her phone
continues rings, happily singing it's song and vibrating in joy.

She wakes up to the sound of her cellphone craving her attention; dreams
rolling back from where they came.
