Title: Overtime is evil
Date: 2007-11-14 08:25
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Miscellaneous, Technology
Tags: Amazing!, Jarkko Laine, Miscellaneous, Overtime, Technology, Working
Slug: overtime-is-evil
Status: published

The more I try and read what others are saying on the world wide
interweb, the more I realize that there are a lot of people out there
who are a hell of a lot smarter then myself. [Jarkko
Laine](http://jarkkolaine.com/ "Jarkko Laine") is one of those people.
While looking around his site, I found what is deemed a "[popular
article](http://jarkkolaine.com/2007/07/26/never-work-overtime-again/ "Mever Wprk Overtime Again")".
The title alone got me to read it (Never Work Overtime Again) and after
reading it I can honestly say that he nailed it perfectly. Nothing could
be done to improve the statements made therein.

I can honestly attest to what he's saying, seeing as how I have worked
insane amount of overtime at my current place of work. The worst part
about it that I have noticed is that I bust my ass off by working
overtime just so we can hit the all-important, all-omnipresent deadline
and then turn around to find another one looming overhead. It's painful,
and to be honest it's aggravating, infuriating, and depressing all at
once. Point 2 - "If the deadline set for your project \[...\] next
deadline will be as tight as this one. If not tighter." - is so true it
*hurts*. I have stated many times at my current reside that the time
lines are made without actually talking to us (in some cases) and this
in turn screws us, the development team. I don't know if my statements
fall of deaf ears, but I have noticed that recently I have not had to
work the overtime I used to... with the exception of last week. That was
rough.

Anyways!

I cannot say whether this tight-lining the deadlines is purposely done,
but I can tell you that it leads almost instantly into point 4 and 5.
Working overtime burns you out. I worked 7 weeks straight at my job at
one point. It was our whole development team's trial by fire. We pulled
it off, but there is nothing to brag about pulling a 45 hour work day.
No matter how hardcore you feel, you look like shit and your appearance
will scare small children.

The second half of the post is the really important part though. It's
the part that attention needs attention paid. It's easy(ish) to state
what evil will be wrought from working overtime, if given enough time to
think about it. It's another thing entirely to actually come up with
ways to stop doing it. I have trouble with this part, as I'm sure many
other people do. It's hard to say no to the people who sign your
paychecks and keep you from living out of your car. Trust me on this
one, it's hard to do and I'm still trying to figure out how to get the
idea across.

Jarkko makes good points on how to get rid of overtime; points 4 through
7 on the second list are easy to do and I feel are just good practices
to... well... practice! Number 8 is the truly difficult one. If you do
this wrong, people will feel you're not a team player, only looking out
for yourself, etc. When talk like this hits managements ears, you're in
for a world of hurt and/or welfare checks. I'm not saying you should
live in perpetual fear of your higher-ups (though a little fear is
healthy, or so I'm told) but shooting yourself in the foot by arrogantly
declaring that you are a slave to overtime no more will not win you any
points.

I'll clearly state that I've got a screwed up work-ethic, and so
overtime though a horrible concept, I perceive as an occasional
requirement. I think I may have gotten it from my father, but I'm not
entirely sure. I'm slowly working on being able to work without having
to complete projects via overtime but it's an ongoing process.
