Title: Rudy 2: this time it's personal
Date: 2010-12-09 15:15
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Bad bad bad, Personal, Self-Improvement
Tags: Bad bad bad, dont be a dick, management, Personal, work
Slug: rudy-2-this-time-its-personal
Status: published

Back in the day, I worked at a place that, while educational, was
terrible to work at in a first world sort of way. I wasn't getting paid
my due, the atmosphere wasn't what one would call supportive, and the
management was... well that's where this story comes in. I won't name
the company, though why I'm protecting them is beyond me. Anyone with a
bit of investigative skills can figure out where this was. I'll even
give you a clue: It wasn't a school.

Anyways, I was a developer at a smaller web development company that was
run more through fear and unreasonable expectations than through proper
management savvy. This place also had a habit of paying its female
employees lower than the males, despite experience and obvious
credentials. I don't want to draw any correlation here, but I'm sure
your mind can work something out on its own.

Before we get into the story, I should point out that in work
environments, I tend to be fairly outspoken, and chatty. This doesn't
seem to hinder my work or the work of those around me. This is just how
i work; I am a surprisingly social creature at my workplace. People tend
to know what I think about what I'm working on, situations at work, and
most topics that get discussed around me. Its a good working model for
me. Sadly this model didn't work so well with management at my old job.

The Story
---------

So it was annual review time. A week prior to our expected meetings with
our manager I, like everyone else, was given a sheet for a self-analysis
review. We were to outline our strengths, weaknesses, goals etc. It was
all very open-ended. Well, I thought it was, apparently there was a
correct way to fill it out, and I had just missed something. There was a
section at the end for goals I wanted to achieve; personally,
professionally, etc. I had no real problem coming up with some answers
for the professional section, but I was reluctant to list any personal
goals. I came up with some answers, submitted my paperwork, and
continued on working.

A week later my meeting with management arrives. I step into his
uniform, unadorned, clinically sterile office. This was a man about
efficiency; he didn't take bullshit, he felt he didn't deal in it (this
is suspect) and was generally quite boring; well boring except for the
fact he could dead lift 300 pounds. Seriously, he worked out like
Arnold. He was, however as anal as [the boss from The
Incredibles](http://www.imdb.com/character/ch0003834/ "IMDB"). That
whole scene with him lining up the pencils on his desk calendar?

That's a real thing.

He sits me down and we stare at each other in silence for roughly a
minute; him with a frown, me with what was probably a bored look on my
face. I couldn't help it; this was not something i wanted to be doing
considering the timelines they liked to throw at me. Frankly I had more
important things to do with my time than what I considered a formality.
Had I known what was to come, I'd have been a bit more on my A game.

He opened with the easy compliments, and then went after my behavior
(and his distaste for it), and then said "but the real problem i have
today is with your goals."

"My goals?" I responded. "what about my goals?"

"Well Corey, when i set a goal, i give myself a clear timeframe in which
to achieve it by. Say I wanted to read a book, I'd set a goal that I
will read that book by March 21, 2007. Your goals," he says as he
motions to my self-analysis paper, "are too vague. You'll never really
achieve them with goals like that. You didn't even write that many down.
You can't tell me you don't have goals."

I tried to hide a smile. My reasoning for vague goals is that I had
absolutely no intention of sharing any of my legitimate goals, work,
personal, or other to them. I didn't like working there, and i didn't
like how it was run, and to be honest i didn't really like them. So yes,
my goals were vague and not really defined, which was by design.
Apparently my manager took notice of this, and than took the completely
wrong impression from it.

Now, not noticing my smirk or utterly unfazed by it, he went on: "we
really want you to get some more focus Corey, so here's what were going
to do: we're going to split your raise for now. You'll get half now, and
we'll have another chat in a little while and see about that second
half."

Yes, apparently the best way to motivate me into having better goals was
to punish my financially.

"Uh, okay." I responded, not because I was offended (though I should
have been), but because their tactic honestly confused me. Did they
honestly think this was going to make me *more* motivated? Apparently
so, but they wanted to give me that extra push: "Something else i want
you to do Corey... There's a movie id like you to watch. Its all about
setting goals and keeping focused, despite what comes your way. That's
something else you need to work on: focus."

As an aside, let it be known that by this point my projects where the
only ones that managed to hit any sort of timelines, and I had worked 50
hour work days to make sure i hit those deadlines. Lack of focus my left
gingery testicle.

At this point I was honestly trying not to laugh. A movie. Seriously?
You've just robbed me of half my wage increase, and now you want me to
go watch a movie?

"It's called Rudy. Its a fantastic film, I really think you'll get a lot
out of it. Have you seen it before?" he said, smiling at me in what I
assume was his best fatherly smile.

"Nope" said I, still totally blind-sided by the situation, "can't say
that I have."

"You go home and watch it tonight, then come talk to me tomorrow. I
really think you'll learn a lot."

"Y..yeah, sure" I muttered. I sat there for a moment longer, before the
awkwardness of the moment hit the '14 year old male doing a presentation
in front of his class for sex ed.' level of uncomfortableness.

I went back to my desk and sat down, and explained to my neighbor (one
of the female employees who had similar opinions to my own about the
company) and explained what had just gone down in our managers office..
She laughed when I mentioned the video, but refused to tell me what I
was in for.

I know why now, and my revenge on her will be *devastating*.

Before we get to the review…
----------------------------

I am sure a great many number of people love Rudy. It really is a
soul-stirrer. Underprivileged guy makes his way into school despite all
odds, studies hard, makes it onto the team, and in the end he finally
get to achieve his life-long dream of playing for ... Whatever the hell
football team he adored. I obviously paid close attention.

My problem was probably the fact that I went in watching this movie, I
was cynical due to the context in which I was told to watch it; that is,
I only got half my raise because of vague goals and an apparent lack of
focus. You are going to have to forgive me a bit for my inability to
appreciate what may very well be a decent movie. I don't think any
suggested movie can really be appreciated in a similar situation.

Anyways, lets see what I took from Rudy, given the context.

My curt, somewhat biased review of the movie 'Rudy'
---------------------------------------------------

A slow, small, un-athletic teenager from a lower middle class family has
a dream of playing for a college football team. He makes sure everyone
knows about this dream, and refuses to listen to their pointing out the
obvious; namely that he is slow, short, and poor. He starts working at
the steel mill with his father, where he continues to tell everyone
about his goal in life. Everyone laughs. Rudy is resentful and becomes
more determined to prove them wrong.

Rudy heads off to the college and weasels his way into campus life by
begging a preacher to sponsor him and then living off of the charity of
the groundskeeper. I will give him credit: he is resourceful. He
basically lives in the shed in the football stadium.

Fast forward through a montage of Rudy studying hard, applying for the
main school and getting rejected every semesters' end until we have
Rudy's first big (and obvious) break: he gets into the big school. He
does, of course continue to study hard, because hell, why not.

So now that Rudy has made it to college, he starts begging to get onto
the team. He is obviously denied. It takes more than grades to get onto
the team. You need things like skill, strength, and to be roughly 7
inches taller. No matter, obvious job requirements matter not to
Rudy. He keeps pestering until he gets onto the maintenance crew for the
team and starts befriending the team members. After months of this, he
manages to get onto the reserve team. Once again this is due the charity
of those in better positions.

Game season starts, and of course he is begging to get onto the team.
He's got moxy! Once again the coach points out that he is too small,
slow, and unskilled to ever make it onto the team. Moxy or not, he's
just not a decent fit into a line-up of skilled players. He is almost
literally the short, fat kid in the red rover line.

Que another montage. This one involves loads of training, more
befriending, and i think there is some sort of half-baked romance in
there too. I'm pretty sure his training revolves around a tackle or some
such thing. My memory in this is mercifully vague.

About 40 minutes of sappy, endearing crap happens now. It's just one
long 'everyone against Rudy's dream' train, and you are stuck watching
it crash and burn. I think he gets to kiss a girl, and there was
probably a bar fight. I know that at some point in here, he ends up
being super-friends with the main football lineup.

Game day; literally the climax of the film.

It's the last game of the season.

Rudy hasn't managed to get onto the main team yet. He is crushed.
Luckily, all of the guys on the team love Rudy so damned much by this
point in the film, that they threaten to turn in their jerseys to the
coach if he doesn't put Rudy on the team. Once again the coach says no,
calling their bluff because Rudy is too small, slow, and unskilled to be
an effective team member. Never mind that he montaged his way to
probably successful tackle or whatever.

The team follows through, and start to hand over their jerseys until the
coach caves and puts Rudy on the team. Success for our poor little beta
male! Note that this is the third major example of depending on others
to get him where he needs to be. Other than being lovable and studying
like a med student on meth, Rudy hasn't really done that much.

Rudy has made it onto the field, but the coach hasn't played him;
nothing but bench for poor, small Rudy. That is until the team starts
chanting "Rudy" or something, and the crowd picks up on this and runs
with it. This is supposed to be the emotional build-up that make grown
men suddenly have something in their eye. The sap-o-metre is dialed up
to 11 for the end of this movie.

There are 4 seconds (I could be wrong here, but I am pretty sure there
were less than 10 seconds left) left on the clock. The final play. Team
Rudy is up 7-24 (once again this is a guess but there was at lest a 2
down difference). The coach cracks under the pressure of the crowd and
puts Rudy in. The coach is a bit of a bitch for peer pressure.

The whistle blows, and rudy performs his singular tackle, enabling him
to fulfill his life-long dream at the age of 23 or so, and be carried
off the field by his team mates. Fade to black. or Sepia... or...
something.

What I learned from being forced to watch 'Rudy'
------------------------------------------------

By the end of the movie, I was angry. I was also bored, but mostly I was
angry. Here's what I took away from that movie was this:

-   It doesn't matter whether you can or can't do the job; work hard and
    suck up and you can make it on the kindness of others.
-   Your life-long goal is actually very short0sighted, and after you
    achieve it, you wont have anything to look forward to. You peaked
    at 23. Also, your life goal is kind of weak.
-   Nothing you contribute to the team actually matters, nor will it
    actually make a difference or change the outcome of anything you are
    involved in.
-   You are stupid.

So what my manager was telling me (in my eyes) was that I was stupid,
got by on the sympathies and kindnesses of others, that nothing I do
actually matters, nor do I contribute anything to the team other than
some sort of mascot status. Oh, and my goals are shallow and
unimportant. I don't even know if focus was really brought up in the
film.

I made sure to tell my manager this the next day. I did make sure to
outline that i knew what he expected me to take from it, but I wanted
him to know that he should be very careful about what he suggests people
to watch. He didn't seem too pleased with the fact that I basically shat
all over his most favouritist movie. I did however manage to leave him
utterly speechless.

What happened after this second chat really is a testament to a lack of
employee understanding, and what happens when you use 1950s management
styles in the new world. That is, a style of management that induces a
fear of losing your job if you don't work harder, as opposed to a method
where support your employees.

The day I told my manager my about my take on Rudy was also the day I
had signed the jobs death certificate in my head. I stopped talking to
people, I stopped being a social person, and worst of all I stopped
caring. My work became sloppier and I just didn't care. Why should I?
They already explained that I wasn't that important, held back half of
my raise, and didn't like how I worked anyways. Oh, and apparently
lacked focus, despite evidence to the contrary.

They saw my new, depressingly altered work style and actually attributed
it to me focusing more on my work. It was actually quite the opposite; I
didn't care, but they couldn't tell because they never actually bothered
to talk to me about anything.

The end result
--------------

Watching Rudy (and the attitude shift that happened after) did drive me
to make a rather specific goal: I applied to college for Graphic Design.
Right in the height of my "fuck this place I am leaving and I don't
care" phase, they gave me the rest of my raise because I seemed to have
a lot more focus. That night, I went home and applied for graphic design
school.

That gave me a rather solid deadline in which to achieve a couple more
specific goals; pay off my new car, save up as much as possible for
school (made easier by the rest of my raise), and quit the job that had
robbed me in more ways than my raise.

I guess they were right about the focus, but wrong about the subject.

The lesson?
-----------

There are many lessons to take away from here: Don't make people watch
Rudy, don't withhold raises for terrible reasons; don't make your life
goal to play for a college football team; don't be afraid to quit your
horrible, horrible job; the list goes on and on.

The most important one is actually for the manager: don't run your shop
through fear and doublespeak. Instead of punishing someone for not
fitting into your mould, see what they *are* contributing, and find a
way to augment that to the benefit of the company.

Also, don't be a dick.

P.S. If you're wondering why this is called Rudy 2, I can field that
one. There was at one point a one line blog post on this website that
stated '*Rudy, rudy, rudy, rudaayyyy*.' That's it. The reason was that I
was still working at my former job and feared they'd find my actual
thoughts on the subject and *sodomize* me. It was also a hat tip to the
then popular song 'Ruby' by the Kaiser Chiefs. Some time down' the road,
I deleted this post due to its utter irrelevance.
