Title: Scope Creep: or What makes project leads cry?
Date: 2008-03-13 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Design
Tags: analysis, clients, creep, Design, good-practices, process, scope, scope creep
Slug: scope-creep
Status: published

### What to do when your superior wants everything, in addition to the kitchen sink

I would love for the simple answer to be to say "No." To stand up for
your project plan and combat the forces of evil that are working
tirelessly to ruin your brain-child. Unfortunately saying no generally
lands you in the dog house with your superior, or fired and replaced
with someone who may or may not be your better.

Many of us know that taking the direct approach will generally land us
in the unemployment line, and so people generally tend to do nothing.
I'm not saying it doesn't work, but I can say that you have to be on
very good terms with whoever you are dealing with if you want to pull a
stunt like this. For the record: clients like this even less than
bosses, so you can easily swap the two. If the client drops you because
of your nay nay attitude, you could still end up in the unemployment
line making my visual just as real.

### So what can you do?

#### Talk it through

You can always try and talk them out of it, or at the very least discuss
the validity of adding their new bauble to the project at all, let alone
so late into it. This option is usually attempted in the "last-ditch"
phase of everything, which is a shame because that is when it is least
useful. Try this tactic first if only for the fact that it poses the
least amount of backlash. The ensuing discussion could actually lead to
different approaches or insights that may actually help you with the
newest addition, or even another part of your project. You may end up
doing it, but at least everyone knows where they stand.

#### Bargain.

This doesn't always work, but it is generally worth a shot. The most
painless and the easiest to approach, try bargaining with your
client/boss to see if you can avoid their addition, or add it to a later
release. I suggest the latter because if the suggestion isn't utterly
retarded, then you have a goal for the next release which will make
everyone happy. If, however, it is bat-shit insane to add then try and
talk them down from their idea.

.postList

#### Make sure the request isn't documented anywhere, and other devious things

This way you can "forget" either willingly or by taking advantage of
your piss-poor memory. I don't personally suggest this because unless
your cliboss (made it up, and I'm going with it) shares your goldfish
memory, they'll probably neglect to mention it until you think you've
gotten away with your scheme, and now you're stuck doing the late shift.
This will also probably make you look like an idiot, and send you down
on the foodchain. From what I have seen, experienced, and otherwise
know, I can honestly say that subterfuge works the least in almost any
professional situation.Unless you're a professional con-man, you're
probably going to be seen right through. Save yourself the agony and try
a more legitimate approach.

#### Suck it up buttercup

You could of course do the work. This is an option, and one that many
people are stuck doing. Sometimes you can't get out of it, and it will
hurt you inside every time. This is doubly so if it is legitimately your
fault. If you missed something in your [analysis
phase]({filename}respect-the-process-damnit.md "Respect the Process, Damnit"),
it makes you feel more like a moron when you're burning that midnight
oil to meet your cliboss' (still using it) expectations. An easy way to
help avoid this is to make sure you do a solid and thorough job on your
information gathering and analysis. Make sure you involve the required
parties to actually cover the angles needed. This won't stop scope creep
every time, but at the very least you can be safe and sure that it is
not of your doing. Bitterness is better when it's not directed at
yourself.

#### Stick with "No"

If none of those work, you can still say **no**. The only way this can
work is to back up your negativity with solid proof that by including
*feature X* into your doodad, you will not be able to hit the deadline.
You'll generally need to back this up with graphs, numbers, and strong
reasons as to why it can't be done. You'll still get the skunk eye, but
at least you can feel better knowing that you can back up your stance
with information to support you. This also has the added bonus of making
sure that someone in charge is informed, which takes much of the
responsibility out of your hands. Granted this may not add up to doing
anything more than wasting time, because some times the addition just
*has* to be in there. It sucks, but sometimes you're boned either way.

Sometimes you'll end up getting screwed over and end up working late or
whatever you need to do to get the job done. It's not really avoidable
in ever scenario. You can limit how often it happens though. The best
way is to make sure you've covered your bases throughout the entire
process with sign-offs and cliboss interaction. The more they are
involved from the start the more personal responsibility they will feel,
and the more information you can work with from the get go.
