Title: Solidarity of character
Date: 2007-11-12 01:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Miscellaneous, Personal
Tags: Ittybiz, Japan, Jarkko Laine, Miscellaneous, Naomi Dunford, Norm, Personal, Solidarity of character, Sunday, Theresa
Slug: solidarity-of-character
Status: published

This is going to sound like an odd article, as I have yet to write
anything on this site remotely reflective or contemplative. I don't know
why, actually but that's just how it's turned out. In any case, I was
talking to Theresa on Sunday when the topic of my friend Norm moving to
Japan. She commented on how she was jealous of those who have "free
lives" or those who can just "up and do it." She also made the comment
that not all of them succeed, to which I responded with "those are the
ones that lack the strength of character to see it out."

After thinking about it for a little while, i decided to elaborate a bit
on what I meant. There are certain types of people out there that can go
for it. They set their eyes on something, and the run full steam towards
that goal. Nothing distracts them, nothing deters them. I don't mean
that only those who fly off to Japan to live there, or those who will
try and do something (build, write, draw, etc) new that could be badly
received. I refer to any and every person that sets their goals and
lives to them. These are the people everyone should aspire to be. These
are the people that can set the bar on how to really live life.

Then there is the other group that merely lives through situations and
makes the best of things. They see the world as something that happens,
not something to make happen. These are your desk-jockeys. These are
your lunch alone in a diner sort of people. These are the people that
ride the bus every day and wonder why they got on it, and then forget
that they wondered it.

I'm not going to advocate which is the better path, because I know good
people who fall under both categories. What I will say is that the first
group, those who work towards making things happen for themselves are
the ones with the soundest character. They may be assholes, jerks, or
whatever label you want to tack on them but it's true. They know what
they want and the go for it. There is something to respect in that,
regardless of how much of a dick they may or may not be. That doesn't
mean that they all succeed. I'm sure 9/10 fall on their face and end up
working at a gas station somewhere. The other 1 though, they have what
I'm talking about (and took way too long to get to.)

Solidarity of character. They have what it takes to stick it out and
achieve what they set out for themselves. To use Norm as an example; he
wanted to live in Japan. I can trace this desire back at least 4 years
as far as I have known him. He's just always wanted to do it. As such he
took the steps to get there. He figured out how to get a visa, and the
ensuing fiasco of how the hell to stay in the country for 5 years in
order to apply for permanent residency. He also learned the language,
the mannerisms, and the culture back to front. He did this while going
through school and working. He made it happen for himself, and now he's
over there learning about the 100+ trains he can take to get anywhere
and visiting 10 story electronic stores. I also know he has what it
takes to see this right to the end, and I've never been so proud to be
his friend.

Personally, I cannot tell you which type of person I am nor if I possess
said characteristic . I can say that I am working towards being part of
the first group; to take charge of what I want and to work towards it.
It's hard. It's fantastically, ridiculously hard though. Sometimes is
easier to just throw your hands in the air and curse the fates for
bestowing such problems upon their already weary shoulders. I know the
feeling, because I have been there. I'm rather sure that I'm not the
only one either. Whether you admit to it or not is a different matter
entirely, and not the focus of this post.

What I'm getting at here is to get you, the reader, to think about this:
"What sort of person am I?"

It's rhetorical so don't start emailing me with what you think *I* am.
You *can*, but that's not the point here.

What sort of person are you?

\[EDIT November 12, 2007\]

I just came across [this
article](http://ittybiz.com/getting-more-jobs-are-you-cocky-or-do-you-have-balls/ "Cocky or balls")
at work (I read this [RSS
feed](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Ittybiz "Ittybiz"), its both
informative and entertaining.) Madam Naomi makes a rather good point
that I wish to integrate with what I have already said here. Those who
make things happen for them tend to be perceived as arrogent, cocky, or
are otherwise jerks we don't like. She makes the point that some people
are actually arrogent, and some simply have the balls to stand up and
fight for what they want.

The two get used somewhat interchangeably and I would like to point out
that not everyone that fights for it is cocky. I call it 'solidarity of
character' she calls it 'having balls' but both mean the type of person
who stands up for what they want and fights for it. In retrospect, her
way of saying it is way more ballsy. Damn it all!

Just thought I would clarify that one. Cocky people do suck, though they
still make it happen for themselves so give props where it's due.

\[/EDIT November 12, 2007\]

\[EDIT 2 November 12, 2007\]

Jesus christ! Did [everyone have this same thought
pattern](http://jarkkolaine.com/2007/11/09/people-in-movies-dont-play-for-keeps/ "People in Movies Don't Play for Keeps")
around the same time or what? I mean wow, it's almost sort of creepy,
given that I hadn't read either article when I had written mine. Crazy.
I mean this one is a little different then what I'm talking about, but
it all relates back to what I was saying. In this case Jarkko states
that people in movies seem to live such fuller lives, and he states that
it is because they never give up. They have a goal and they work
unendingly towards it.

It all comes full circle here people.

\[/EDIT 2 November 12, 2007\]
