Title: Stacking - Double Fine (2011)
Date: 2011-03-10 15:00
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Game Reviews, Reviews, Xbox
Tags: 6.5/10, Double Fine, Stacking, Xbox
Slug: stacking-double-fine-2011
Status: published

I'm quickly becoming a big fan of [Double Fine
Productions](http://www.doublefine.com/ "Double Fine"), and the
wonderful stuff that's coming wonderfully out of their wonderful hands.
I didn't get a chance to review [Costume
Quest](http://www.costumequestgame.com/ "Costume Quest") when it came
out (by which I mean I was too goddamned lazy) but I can say that it was
easily one of the best Xbox Arcade games to come out in forever.

When the expansion for Costume Quest came out, I burned through it and
found that Double Fine threw in an easter egg/achievement that
advertised their new game (and subject of this review),
[Stacking](http://www.facebook.com/stackingvideogame "Facebook - Stacking").

With some interesting mechanics, and the Double Fine sense of humour,
Stacking makes for an interesting addition to the Xbox Arcade.  
<!--more-->

Synopsis
--------

[![Stacking - a russian-doll story by Double
Fine](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-410x397.jpg "Stacking")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking.jpg)

[Stacking](http://www.facebook.com/stackingvideogame "Facebook - Stacking"),
by [Double Fine Productions](http://www.doublefine.com/ "Double Fine")
takes place in a semi-russian universe where everyone is a russian
stacking doll. I have no idea how they breed or anything, but that's
just how it is.

Anyways, the story revolves around Charlie Blackmore, the tiniest of the
Blackmore family; a family of chimney sweepers who's motto is "Ain't no
mess we can't address!" One day, their father comes in saying he's been
given a new job for The Baron, and that their money troubles are over.
Sadly though, the Baron is a bastard and instead kidnaps your father.
The rest of your family goes to get him back, and
are subsequently kidnapped. The Baron's men then come for your mom and
Charlie, but opt to leave him behind since he's so small. Apparently
Charlie's no use to them. This makes no sense, given there are many
Charlie-sized holes in the areas that would be a perfect fit for him.

I totally meant that pun. I am un repuntant.

Yeah. ***Yeah***.

Now this sound's like a terrible situation for wee Charlie to be in, but
he has an ability that is, under normal circumstances, terrifying.
Charlie can hop into a larger doll (one size up) and take them over and
use their abilities. They can then stack them into the next step up,
etc.

Using this ability, Charlie works through different parts of the
Stacking world, freeing his family as well as ending child-labour and
ruining the Evil Baron's plans.

[![The
Blackmores](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-the-blackmoors-410x230.jpg "stacking-the-blackmores")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-the-blackmoors.jpg)

Gameplay
--------

Stacking is basically a situational puzzle game, using the skills of the
other dolls around you to overcome challenges. Most of these challenges
are story-driven, and come with a guilt-free hint system that will
basically spell things out for you if you're totally lost. Each
challenge has more than one solution, and it's neat to see what ones you
can come up with on your own. Some are less obvious than others.

The mechanics are polished, which is good considering how simple they
are. I'd be pretty upset if the controls were jerky in a game as
straight-forward as Stacking is. I found the follow camera to be a bit
wonky at points, but overall worked fairly well. performable actions are
in the top right of the screen at all times, which is helpful for
telling you when you can/cannot perform things like stacking, talking,
etc.

The level designs are cute bordering on whimsical, and utterly
non-threatening. The levels are generally sprawling, but very linear.
Stacking does a lot of hand-holding if you want to just go through the
motions of finishing the game. If you get lost, there's even a button to
point you in the direction you need to go.

As for extras, Stacking comes with two options:

### Collectable Dolls

In every level, there are a number of unique dolls that you can collect
by stacking into them. These dolls are, in many cases, the ones you will
need to use to get through most of the challenges, so you will end up
collecting a good portion of them as you go along. There are also dolls
that have a special ability that will make any unique dolls in the area
glow.

Like I said, there's a lot of hand holding.

[![Men always fall for
her.](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-seduce-410x230.jpg "stacking-seduce")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-seduce.jpg)

### Hijinks

These ones are far less obvious. The names of many of the hijinks are
vague or just straight-up unhelpful. The only saving grace is that they
all have to do with using a certain dolls ability on something or
someone a number of times. When you get one the first time, the hijinks
is registered in the menu and you then find out what you actually have
to do.

Basically if you stack into every doll, and use it's ability on a man, a
woman, and a child, you'll probably find most of them. I won't blame
anyone for using a guide for these though. Otherwise they could be quite
a time-drain.

Graphics
--------

Stacking is a cute-looking game. That translates into 'not super
high-def'. Does that mean the graphics are poor? Far from, but for those
out there that dool over things like the new Crysis 2 demo, Stacking
will be a bit underwhelming, visually. Having said that, there are many
little details that made me smile; paintings on walls, the little
russian-doll motifs worked into carpets and wallpapers, etc. It's in the
details that this game shines, graphically. Special detail has been
given to the dolls themselves, which I'm sure is a hat tip to the
intricate designs you will find on more
traditional [matryoshka](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matryoshka_doll "Wikipedia - Matryoshka Doll")
dolls.

The videos are also an interesting change. They're all shot in a silent
movie format. They look gritty, they're all shot to a tinkling piano
score that's very appropriate for the supposed timeframe of the game,
and they even have the interruption of video to have the speech text
displayed as a black and white panel.

Issues
------

Nothing major with Stacking, really. It's not trying to do too much in
terms of inovation, which could be considered a problem. The linear
nature of the main storyline will be a turn-off for those that prefer a
huge open-ended world.

I think that Stacking, much like Costume Quest, is amied more at people
(or children) that are new to the genre (or gaming in general), as
opposed to the hardcore gamers. This will stop some from purchasing it,
which is a shame, given how much fun it really is to play and explore.
It can be a bit boring if you're used to more complex puzzle games, but
that's more of a personal preference for masochism.

[![The fanciful world that is
Stacking](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-trainstation-410x231.jpg "stacking-trainstation")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/stacking-trainstation.jpg)

A major hang-up I had with Stacking was an inability to skip some of the
key videos. I'm aware that they did this so that you knew what was going
on, but If you are good at understanding what's going on well ahead of
the script, these videos are a slow torture.

My biggest issue is that Stacking is pretty short for it's cost. I'm
pretty sure I clocked about 6 hours on Stacking (that includes doing all
of the extras) and finished. I know it's an XBL game and all, but that's
pretty damned short. This is doubly true when you're paying 1200
microsoft points for it. If it'd been priced at the more normal 800
points, I probably wouldn't have made it a point, but it's not and so I
am.

Overall
-------

Stacking is fun. Stacking is cute. Stacking has some interesting game
mechanics. It won't blow your mind, but I'm sure no one would outwardly
dislike it. If you can't find something else to spend 1200 Microsoft
points on, you won't go too wrong dropping them on Stacking. I'd suggest
waiting for a sale though.

6.5/10
