Title: The Walking Dead - Telltale games (2012)
Date: 2013-06-26 22:35
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Game Reviews, Reviews, Xbox
Tags: 9.5/10, Clementine, Lee, Telltale Games, The Walking Dead, XBox 360, zombies
Slug: the-walking-dead-telltale-games-2012
Status: published

With my moving back to Canada soon at hand, I was forced with the
unfortunate reality that the time I had with my XBox 360 was quickly
drawing to a close. As such, I wanted to make sure I got through a
couple of my unfinished games before getting rid of the lovely thing.
I'm taking the harddrive back home with me, so it's only a temporary
hiatus. That said, one of the titles I opted to complete was Telltale's
[The Walking
Dead](http://www.thewalkingdead.com/ "The Walking Dead official site").

I really should have thought about that before diving in. Everyone said
it was amazing and moving and sucked you in and sliced bread could learn
a thing or two from it and who knows what else. It's been given great
reviews up and down the line, and for good reason: it's amazing.

I'm not even saying that glibly, and I'm saying that despite some of the
whacky glitched stuffed I ran into. This game is amazing, and if you
like ~~playing games~~ engaging stories, you absolutely need to
experience this game. If you want to read 2500 or so more words why I
think you should, read on.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

[![The walking dead - a
story](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-field1.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-field1.jpg)

Synopsis
--------

To get things out of the way: This is a licensed product for [The
Walking
Dead](http://www.thewalkingdead.com/ "The Walking Dead official site"),
written by Robert Kirkman, and released by Skybound Entertainment. It is
a game that revolves around the end of the world, brought about by the
introduction of Zombies. From what I can gather, the origin of the
zombies is never fully explained, and to be honest it doesn't need to.
All you need to know is that the dead are walking, they want to eat you,
and you can turn into one of them if you get yourself bit. Telltale's
game takes place in what seems to be the same universe as the comics,
but features almost entirely different characters. Some state that the
game is actually in a parallel universe from the comics, and some of the
familiar faces are simply that.

Your character, Lee Everett, is on his way to jail for a murder he may
or may not have committed. En route though, the squad car hits someone
in the road, flies out of control, and ends up dumping you in a forest,
dazed and battered.

That's when the tension starts.

You are introduced to the zombies, and forced - quite quickly - to
defend yourself by harming the undead. As you make your way from the
forest, you wind up in a suburb that has quickly gone to hell. While
calling for help, you come across Clementine, an eight year old girl
who's been hiding in her treehouse. Your character decides to take her
with you, because it's obviously too dangerous for her to be alone. You
promise to take care of her until her parents can be found. And so
begins the story of Lee and Clementine.

From there, you meet, befriend, befoe, kill, barter and avoid other
members of the living. Some will come with you, others will do anything
but. Some wil just want to string you up and take your stuff.

Man kind at its absolute finest.

Gameplay
--------

[![The Walking Dead - shambling
along](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-field.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-field.jpg)

The Walking dead is structured across five episodes. Originally to help
build suspense in those that played the games as soon as it came out. To
the rest of us, it's an easy way for Telltale to get a couple
micro-transactions out of us. Each chapter, baring the 4th and 5th have
a decreasing amount of time happening between them. the first and second
seem to have months between them; episodes 2 and 3 seem to have a month
or so between them; episodes 3 and 4 seem to have days / a week or so; 4
and 5 are literally back to back. This gives an interesting ramping to
the narrative; an urgency that is played with by the Telltale people
with upsetting ability.

### The illusion of choice

The Walking Dead is an adventure game that adapts depending on the
choices you make as Lee. Depending on your supplies, who you choose to
trust, who you lie to, even what you use to defend yourself. The game
offers much in the way of choice to really make it a more personal
experience. That said, Telltale had a story to tell, and by God, they
are going to tell you what that story is. Many of the choices you make
are, for the most part, cosmetic in the grand scheme of things. The game
has its story, and you, the player, are brought along with it. Sure, you
can arue how the story is told to you via the choices offered, but in
the end it's the same overall story.

This is, at its heart, what separates Telltale's The Walking Dead from
many other games: the illusion of choice.

This game does an amazing job at masking it's own story and really
making you feel like *you* made things happen, even though it's actually
a very story-driven narrative. In many games, the system simply tells
you what you have to do, and you operate within those confines. It's
alienating in a way, because it feels like you're being dictated to
rather than you coming to that conclusion yourself. This isn't the case
with The Walking Dead; you are made to feel that your decisions matter.

This is achieved using an extremely strong narrative; by little
notifications telling you that people will remember what you did or
said, and; by presenting you with the consequences of your actions and
forcing you to look them square in the eye. It does all of this to mask
the fact that the story is moving forward regardless; you still feel
like you're driving the story, and not the other way around.

[![The Walking Dead - Yeah, why not dead
children?](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-children.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-children.jpg)

### Action vs. Reaction

The entire series bases itself around the idea of survival, with a dash
of hope just to keep you going. Each part of the story has some
undertone of worry or tension, disallowing you to ever really relax.
This works well, because more often than not, you are suddenly forced to
make very rapid decisions: smashing zombies, deciding who lives and
dies, whether to put a bullet in someones head. These events are mostly
quick-time events, which would be considered lame (if not at the very
least status quo), except for the fact that you don't always succeed in
them; you're not supposed to.

These moments introduce a real feeling of panic, even though if you were
to perish, the game will simply restart you at the beginning of the last
major event. These snap reactions get in your head after a while, and
what's more, you start to make them in the heat of the moment.

To site an example: at one particularly perilous point, I had to decide
who to assist: someone by the door, or someone by a shelf. I reacted
instinctively, hoping that the scene would play out more in my favour;
it did not. My actions caused the death of someone, and I was actually
torn up about it.

Outside of these quick decision moments, you are also given slower,
steadier moments. While these don't carry the immediate need to choose,
your actions still carry weight. As you talk to your fellow survivors,
they pick up on everything that you say and do. They form opinions about
you based on what you choose to say (or not say, as that's always an
option). Some will grow to trust you, others would see you dead if you
weren't useful. There were moments in the game where I was given a
stream of dialogue, and I had to pause the game and really mull things
over, because there wasn't an easy answer. Very few games have the balls
to force you to make the tough calls, and I mean the *really tough*
ones.

You see, while the game takes place within a zombie-infested post-world,
it's not really about that. I mean yes, you have to interact with them
in the world, that's unavoidable, but they seem more a fact of life and
less the main plot device. The game revolves far more heavily around how
you interact with those still breathing.

These are the people that Lee must trust, not just for his continued
safety, but for the safety of Clementine as well. The zombies put
everyone at risk, but no worse than a hurricane or earthquake; they are
a now a macabre part of life. It's those around you, and how you've
opted to interact with them that will result in your
continued existence.

[![The Walking Dead -
Clementine](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-clem.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-clem.jpg)

### Clementine & the concept of family

And then there's Clem. Sweet, innocent Clem. She's obviously there to
draw you in, to make you care about more than simply going through the
motions. I *knew this going in* and yet I was just as protective over
her as everyone else. I made many of my decisions to help shield her
from the utter shithole that the world has become. As Lee, you *will*
start to care about Clem. Lee becomes a father and protector of Clem,
and defends his position when others press him on it. It's not that he
wants to be her protector or not, he simply *is. *It's what he is
because he made her a promise, and he's going to follow that through for
as long as he possibly can.

As the game progresses, the hard realities will set in: you can't always
protect her. Lee is, as it works out, simply a guy. He (and by
extension, you) will screw up. Your screw ups can very easily put her
into harms way, hurt her feelings, or otherwise harm her in non-physical
ways. You will make these decisions, and like any parent figure thrust
into the same situation, you will feel regret. You will feel
legitimately bad when these things happen, and all you can do is try and
do better next time.

Lee and Clem's relationship grows to a deep, parent/child style bond,
with Lee always knowing in the back of his mind that he can never truly
replace Clem's parents. This is a terrible position to be put into, and
yet there's little other choice. Later in the game, Lee makes the
decision to start empowering Clem. He teaches her to shoot, he teaches
her to plan, he teaches her about the walkers; just as you would expect
a father to do. In turn, she shows Lee and the rest of the crew that
she's useful as well. She's a smart kid, and her strength is
under-estimated by everyone around her, including Lee. She is forced to
brave more things than anyone would ask an eight year old, and she does
it with a scared but determined resolve. Clem is an amazing character,
and despite her obvious use for various tropes, she's still such an
intrinsic part of the story that to remove her would be to remove the
heart of the game.

And in parallel to Lee and Clem, there are other families surrounding
you: Kenny with his wife and child; Lilly and her father; Hershel and
his son Shawn. All of these other family examples act as a bit of a
mirror in regards to your actions as Lee. There are times when you have
to help them make the hard choices, and points when they will have to do
that for Lee.

This brings in one of the other major themes within The Walking Dead:
Family, and what that really means. Throughout the game, you are forced
who to help, and who to let pass by. Those you choose to keep with you
become your extended family, and you have to figure out how to make
things work. You end up in a very complex familial situation, and it
adds yet another layer to the whole thing. You start to think about
 your choices and how the whole unit will benefit/suffer from them. You
also have to learn how to deal with parts of your family breaking down,
and trying to mend burning bridges. Sometimes it's little things, other
times? Well sometimes guns are drawn.

Graphics
--------

[![The Walking Dead - Die bad zombie,
die!](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-icepick.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-icepick.jpg)

If I had to sum up the graphics of The Walking Dead, I'd have to
say: **gruesome**.

Not to say that they are intentionally ugly, I mean to say that the art
is bleak, bloody, and the zombies? Well the zombies look like they've
seen better days. The whole game is done in a "sort-of cell-shaded but
not quite as much as Borderlands" comic style. Everything looks hand
drawn, but made to fit around more structured architecture. The people
are drawn, but wrapped around workable polygon figures. It's a comic
book, but it isn't.

More than once I was brought to cringe by what I was seeing. What
 caused this you may ask? More often than not was actually by the
artwork that inherited the scenery: stains and drag marks that instantly
get you thinking; painted signs asking for help, or to turn others away;
Clementine's drawings that occasionally pop up. These little touches,
these flourishes really help drive home the mundane yet terrifying
reality of the environment. Sure, a moaning pile of the living dead is
kinda gross, but a child's drawing on the fridge depicting a boy and his
dog, the family portrait, the smashed frame; these are things that give
you pause.

It's a look that works very well for the mood, the style of game, and
the subject matter that it covers.

[![The Walking Dead - Close the
door](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-door.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-door.jpg)

Issues
------

Sadly, while the story was amazing, there were some issues that I
couldn't help but notice. I've broken these down into two areas:
glitches, and tropes.

### A couple glitchy bugs

I should state that I played The Walking Dead on my XBox 360, so that's
all I can compare against. Others have played it for the PC, some on
their mobile device; I can only speak to what I know. I hope the other
variations of the game suffered less. One quick observation: the main
menu was extremely laggy when trying to move to the right episode. This
may just be for the XBox 360, and maybe even only my install. I Don't
know why, but there was some obvious tearing going on there as it tried
to figure out where to move me.

One of the biggest (and most obvious) issues for me were the way
boundaries were handled. There's nothing that breaks the mood more than
having Lee try and walk around a table, only to get stuck, leg hefted in
the air, sort of sliding back and forth. This happened way more than I
was comfortable with. I admit that I was never totally stuck and forced
to restart, but it's still a quick way to draw me out of the moment and
get annoyed at the game *as* a game.

Another issue I ran into twice was what I called "the double convo"
wherein I had the same conversation happening twice, with a
200 millisecond delay. Not only did the speech overlap, but the
character actions would sometimes fire off twice, causing some massive
visual freak outs  Thankfully this wasn't a common occurrence, but it
still ripped me right out of the somewhat intimate moments I was having.

There was also an issue I noticed more often in the later episodes. I
assume the character models are made in a layered format consisting
roughly of: *base, colour, shades, lines*. Every once in a while, the
"lines" or dark edging used to give contour to say, clothing, would be
hovering away from their body. I didn't notice this bug in the first
couple episodes, but I did notice it happening in the 4th and 5th. I
presume this had something to do with rushing the product or some such.
It wasn't a deal-breaker, but still irritating.

[![The Walking Dead - of course there's a zombie in the
house](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-kitchen.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/TWD-kitchen.jpg)

### Predictable tropes

I'm not going to focus too heavily on these, because as previously
stated, Telltale had a story to tell, and by God it's going to tell it
to you. This introduces by necessity some plot devices that I (though
maybe not others) could see coming a mile away. I'm not going to touch
on any specifically, because I'm trying rather hard to keep this review
spoiler-free. Let's just say that sudden character introduction, the
"what could possibly go wrong", the "nothing's gonna happen", and the
"this could work" elements all obviously end less than optimally.

Oh, and when thing seem to quiet, it's obviously high time for another
random zombie to pop up and cause a panic; because a scene can't just be
stressful for the fear of zombies, no no, it must be punctuated by them.
And I'm not going to get into the ending, though I could see it coming
from at least episode 3. It frustrated me how they introduced the major
twist, as I feel like that's not how it should have happened. I'm not
saying that what happened should not have happened (in essence) but
merely stating that it could have been done in a much more believable
way.

Anyways.

Overall
-------

Telltale's [The Walking
Dead](http://www.thewalkingdead.com/ "The Walking Dead official site") was
a game seemingly made for me.

I was playing it, enjoying it, and always trying to be the typical good
guy. It's easier in the earlier episodes to be a right and honourable
dude. I was going along for the ride and enjoying the story until some
time in episode 3. It's hard to tell when things changed exactly, but by
about half way into the episode, I became hooked. I stopped making 'good
guy' choices, and I started making emotional ones. I stopped being a
player, and started being Lee.

Maybe it's because there's no real good way through the game, and that
becomes more obvious as the episodes progress. What defines 'good' and
'bad' become increasingly grey, and your decisions become heavier and
hit closer to home. Sometimes, I just didn't make 'good guy' decisions.
I let people die, I *left* people to die, because it would benefit the
rest of us or because *they goddamned deserved it.* The Walking Dead got
me thinking like that. I stopped thinking about moral codes, and started
thinking survival. The only thing that brought me back from being a
total asshole was Clem; the little girl who looked up to Lee, who
depended on him, and in some cases helped set my Lee back on the
straight and narrowish.

I loved this game. Loved it. I Straight-up adored The Walking Dead.
Telltale did an amazing job telling a story, and weaving me right into
it. In spite of the technical glitches and the predictable plot
elements, it still drew me right in. In the days to come, when I talk
about games that were more than the sum of their parts, that were more
than simply games, The Walking Dead will be discussed. It's so much more
than a game; it edges into 'experience' territory. The Walking Dead
should be played by many, many people. Even if you're not into video
games at all, this is worth making the effort.

Great game, and I'm so glad I took the time to play it. It pulled me in,
it made me care, and it utterly destroyed me emotionally. Could I play
it again? Probably not. Not because it lacks replay value, but because
*I can't take doing all of that over again*. I just can't.

9.5/10
