Title: The day I nearly died
Date: 2013-07-04 18:13
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Bad bad bad, Personal, Random Thoughts, Self-Improvement
Slug: the-day-i-nearly-died
Status: published

I am a 27 (almost 28) year old, white, North American (Canadian,
specifically) male. I have loving parents, dear brothers, friends, my
beautiful wife, and a whole load of awesome experiences under my belt. I
have a job, a roof over my head, loads of electronic gadgets that enrich
my life and keep me thoroughly distracted. Hell I work on them for a
living, making things on the internet do things. It's almost magical.

I am a very lucky man. I'd say blessed, if I had a faith to fall back
upon. That's not to say I'm not spiritual, but if there is a higher
being, I'm pretty sure they've got better things to do than pay
attention to my specific existence.

With all this in mind, it would be insane for a man with so much to
claim that at one point he considered throwing himself off the roof of
his family home, and ending his life rather abruptly - and lets' be
honest here, dramatically - right? Of course it would! So how did I get
that close to the edge, figuratively and literally?

<!--more-->

Before we begin
---------------

Let's start with a quote that I adore:

> "...And I'm a *man*. How many advantages could one person have? I'm
> a *white man*. You can't even hurt my feelings! What can you really
> call a white man that really digs deep?
>
> "Hey, cracker."
>
> "Uh. Ruined my day. Boy shouldn't have called me a cracker. Bringing
> me back to owning land and people, what a drag."
>
> - Louis C.K. on being white

It's brilliant in many ways, because it's a double-bluff. The obvious
joke is that white men are the most privileged of people (which I cannot
and will not debate here) and as such, you can't do much to tear them
down. The under-riding joke is the observation that because of all the
perks one could and would have as a white man, we couldn't possibly be
hurt by what people say or do to is.

It's an amazing joke contained within an *even larger joke* that is also
amazing, I really [suggest watching
it](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TG4f9zR5yzY "Youtube - Louis CK "Being White"").
This also helps to illustrate the disconnect many people feel when they
come across someone who is or was depressed and/or suicidal. With so
much going for them, how could they possibly feel this way?

I'd also like to say right now: I am but one man, and this is my
personal story dealing with depression and suicide. I don't speak for
everyone, and my reasons will be different than others. Hell, my reasons
may very well pale in regards to others problems. With all that said, I
post this anyway. I am simply adding my voice to the many who are also
telling their stories, and I hope that by sharing it, someone can get
something good from it: perspective, a reflection of themselves, help,
whatever.

I am not posting this for sympathy or anything to that affect. I've been
meaning to write this out for a long while, and I've only just found the
words.

I was not cool
--------------

Growing up, I was not a popular child. Being young, nerdy, and a
red-head made me an easy target for those who wanted one. Things were
fine until probably grade 4 when kids started noticing that they were
different, and acted accordingly; that is to say horribly.

Given my personal attributes as well as my physical ones, I was quickly
put on the outskirts of my school society. I was regularly excluded from
games, conversations, Pog trading rings or whatever it was that year,
etc. The list goes on, and it's a list full of things important to a
young person. I tried hard to work around the constant blocks; I hung
out with the bad kids in an effort to befriend them; I forced myself
through the loops of sports; tried to be a bad kid by stealing and
swearing; I even (shamefully) attempted to pick on someone lower on the
social rung to demonstrate that I was just like them.

If Grant ever reads this: I'm sorry Grant, I really am. I was and
continue to be utterly ashamed about the way I treated you. You deserved
none of it, and for all the hell I went through, I'm sure you had it at
least as bad as I did, if not more so.

Sadly none of these attempts actually did much good. I was still
ridiculed constantly, made to feel small and useless. I should point out
that my harassment wasn't just boys being boys either; groups of girls
also went after me. I was a verbal punching bag. This went on day after
day after day. My parents, bless them, tried to help. We went to the
principal, other children were told off, etc. but very little changed.
In fact, by trying to get the school involved, the children just became
worse. See once we had the school step in, the verbal stuff was all made
to be covert. I couldn't tell on anyone because they and their friends
would collectively deny it, making me look like I was just trying to get
them in trouble.

This is also when the physical assaults started.

Hiding in a ditch
-----------------

By the time I was in grade 5, my walks home had become an orchestrated
nightmare.

I would try and stay after school, delay my departure, in hopes that my
would-be assailants would have gone off ahead of me. Sometimes this
worked, more often it did not. I took to taking completely different
route home, but I was eventually found out and my bullying crew would
simply park themselves at various points of exit and wait for me. I even
attempted to hide in a ditch on more than one occasion, much like an
escaped P.O.W. waiting for the guards and their dogs to move on to the
next area so I could make a break for it.

Some days I would actually run the entire way home, a sprint of roughly
750m, which is a long ways for a young, out of shape little kid. The
other days I was simply forced to walk and endure the torture.

My unwanted entourage would follow behind, hurling insults at my back,
laughing, and threatening me with all manner of things. If I chose to
ignore them (as we were always taught) they would simply escalate. I
have been punched in the head on many occasions; I've been shoved,
thrown around, my bag emptied of its belongings and thrown in the
gutter; on two occasions I was actually whipped with reeds (or something
very close to) on the backs of my calves, legs, and arms. I was
repeatedly thrown to the ground, punched, kicked, and spat upon.

Suffice it to say, you can inflict a lot of pain on a person in 750
metres.

It got so bad I asked my parents to relocate me to a new school. Even
though the other school wasn't that far away from my current one, at
least it would give me an out; a new start. This didn't pan out though,
because they didn't believe it to be as bad as it was, and by the time I
asked, I was mid-way through school and they felt that moving then would
be a difficult transition and set me back. I get where they were coming
from now, but at the time, it merely added to my hopelessness

Fighting back: short-term gains
-------------------------------

Some time in grade 5, fought back. It was winter, as I recall. I was
walking home and once again being assaulted. Slush balls were thrown and
connected; insults cutting deep. After crossing a road, I was hit in the
back of the head with a large piece of ice.

I snapped.

When the kid tried to shove me, I turned around and beat the living hell
out of him. I wish I could say that I remember what happened or that
this is where the story ended, but I can't. From what I have been told,
and the brief snippets of memory that stuck, I straddled the kid and
beat his face in. His brother tried to pull me off, so I beat the hell
out of him too. It took some grade 8 or 9 *who heard me screaming at the
top of my lungs 6 houses down*, had to come out and pull me off of my
attacker. If you've ever watched "A Christmas Story" you'll remember the
scene when [Ralphie beats up
Farkus](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XvijyBIgazE "Youtube - A Christmas story Ralphy beats up a bully"). I
imagine it looked something like that.

This granted me a small respite.

I was bully-free for almost 2 months. It was blissful. Sadly it was not
to last, as the kid I beat up decided to re-assert his place in the food
chain, and whilst walking home one day, he came at me from behind,
kicked me in the back, and then throttled me to near unconsciousness.
Given where my self-confidence was sitting at this point, I tumbled
right back down to the bottom of the totem, further than I was before.
The attacks upon my person started again with a renewed energy, and my
life was back to being a hell.

Withdrawing into other worlds
-----------------------------

Since I was very young, I've always been a fan of reading. Magical
portals to other worlds; brilliant. Nothing beats a good story in my
opinion, and this was cemented when my school life took a turn for the
worst.

Throughout it all I continued to read, and later to play video games.
They were my one retreat. They had always been a constant within my
life, but as I got older and my world view became more dim, losing
myself in other worlds became evermore appealing. In the books and
games, I was a hero; I was strong. I could identify with the characters
and live through them. At the end of it all, I was the victor! I
triumphed over the forces of evil, saving the world from those that
would oppress or destroy them.

To say I was projecting a bit would be an understatement. These stories
and games are probably one of the main reasons I'm still around. They
were my lifeblood in many ways. They became a crutch of mine, and almost
all of my money went into buying more books and games to further
distance myself from reality.

What's the point of it all
--------------------------

As the assaults, both physical and mental didn't really let up,
eventually they got to me. I was believing what they were saying about
me, assuming that I obviously had done something to deserve the beatings
and exclusion. It was *my* fault, not theirs. Something was obviously
wrong with *me*. This is, I eventually figured out, what [battered
partner
syndrome](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battered_person_syndrome "Wikipedia - battered partner syndrome")
looks like, and even though these people were not my partner I was still
living in this horrible one-sided relationship with them. They had gone
after me for so long, and done so so thoroughly, that I didn't have the
strength to fight it all off any more. They simply *must* have been
right.

This is when I started questioning the point of my existence. Not in the
deep, philosophical way, but in the practical "What the hell is the
point of my being on this world when I'm obviously useless" sense. These
thoughts lead me to a then obvious conclusion: I should just go.

*I should just go.*

Now remember that when I was thinking this, I was probably 12 or 13. Now
I don't care how petty you may or may not think my problems were, I put
forward that **no** child should be thinking this at all; let alone with
the conviction that I thought it with. I 100% believed this to be true.
I should simply leave this world and stop burdening everyone around me.

In the state that I was in, it seemed perfectly logical. The only people
who liked me were my family and what few friends I had, and they'd get
over my leaving. Maybe not right away, but with me gone, their lives
would obviously be better. And hell, with me gone, all those other
people that put up with me will finally be able to move on with their
lives; go on to bigger and better things. I felt useless, and what's
more, I felt like a burden to everyone around me. I felt unlovable, and
to add to it all, I *obviously* knew that I was never going to find love
or what could pass for love. This was yet another item added to the list
of reasons I don't need to exist. Very melodramatic to be sure, but it
didn't seem that way at the time; at the time if was very, very real.

Looking back, this is obviously not healthy thinking; I was obviously
depressed and suicidal. It's easy to say that now with 15+ years between
me and this, but when you're in the thick of this sort of mental state
you can't see the forest for the trees. I should have talked to someone,
a friend, my parents, *anyone,* and yet I didn't. I didn't feel it was
worth wasting their time. *I* wasn't worth it.

Standing on the edge of tomorrow
--------------------------------

So after living with these thoughts for a couple months, I'd had enough.
It was time to do something; *time to act*. If I was so sick if it all,
then why the hell was I still doing it?

The wonderful person over at [Hyperbole and a
Half](http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.co.uk/ "Hyperbole and a Half"),
Allie, has done some wonderfully revealing writing on depression. Far
better than I could ever do. You should go
[read](http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.co.uk/2011/10/adventures-in-depression.html "Hyperbole and a Half - Adventures in Depression")[them](http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.co.uk/2013/05/depression-part-two.html "Hyperbole and a Half - Depression: part 2").
At one point she talks about depression being like walking across a
desert with no end in sight. You trudge and you trudge and there's just
no change. You just keep doing it and you're not sure why. This is
disgustingly accurate to how I felt at the time. Everything sucked all
the time, and yet I just kept doing it. So eventually something has to
snap.

I opted to end it.

I didn't want to go out with pills or anything like that, because that
could be intercepted. A parent could walk into my room and see the
bottle and call the hospital or whatever. Same goes for drinking bleach
or some other toxic substance. Beyond that, chugging paint thinner is
painful, and I figured I could afford myself a slightly nicer ending to
my story. I wanted something that would be quick, painless, and because
I was a 13 year old, hormone-riddled teenager, I wanted it to have a bit
of a dramatic flair.

My family home was a 2 story building, and due to the cavalier attitude
to house building back in the 80s, I could easily crawl out my window,
and onto the roof of the garage (or
[car-hold](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u79fS9xhYr0 "Youtube - The Simpsons - Moe Car Hold"),
if you prefer). I could simply leap from the roof of the garage and land
on the driveway below. It was simple, it was dramatic, and so long as I
leapt head-fist, it would be effective. So I locked my bedroom door,
opened the window and crawled out.

It was an overcast day, and probably about 7:30 at night. It wasn't
quite dark yet, so this must have been in May or June. I don't remember
the exact day, which is crazy if you think of how very important this
decision was. I was barefoot, wearing PJ bottoms and a blue tshirt. It
was a bit windy, but not overly so and it was muggy out. I remember the
heat. It was weird, because it was warm in that muggy, southern Ontario
way, but wasn't all that hot out. I remember being a bit confused about
that.

Funny isn't it? The things we think about in those sorts of situations.

I walked across my warm black-shingled roof up to the peak of my
garage's roof. I looked over the edge, and I stared.

And I stared.

And I *stared*.

And as I stood there, with the wind lightly buffeting me, I thought:
"This'll work. This'll do the trick. Just one little hop, and I'm out of
everyone's way."

And I stared.

And I stared.

And I lifted one of my feet and dangled it over the edge. All I had to
do was lean into it.

And I didn't. I stood there, one foot over the edge, one foot still
planted, and I just... stood there.

Still.

What the hell man? We had a deal
--------------------------------

So what happened? What stopped me? I wish I could say. I truly don't
know. Whatever reason my brain found for me not to check out early will
be lost to me until the end of my days. If we do get the option to
review our lives when it's all over, I'm going to spend a goodly amount
of time right at that moment so that I can find out just what it was;
mull it over.

Whatever it was, it must have been good. Damned good. I can tell you
what it wasn't: It wasn't the thoughts of my family or friends; it
wasn't my books; it wasn't my games or my pets. It was probably
something utterly insignificant, yet at that moment, it meant the
literal difference between life and death.

So then it all got better, right?
---------------------------------

I wish I could say that this was a life-changing event for me.

Let me rephrase, I wish I could say that this was a life-changing event
for me *at the time*. In retrospect, this is probably one of the single
most important things to happen to me, but at the time I didn't feel
that way. My school life would apparently continue to suck until I got
to high school.

See, my high school housed thousands of students. I went from a school
of 400 or so to a school edging towards 1800. It became easier for me to
hide from my aggressors and thankfully, they were once again at the
bottom of the chain. They were too busy trying to impress their betters
to bother with someone like me.

I eventually found new friends, found out more about myself, and even
found myself a (short-lived) girlfriend. I came tounderstand that I
wasn't useless, and that everything I was told to believe about myself
was pretty much a lie. I developed my interests, found physical sports I
didn't hate, and grew as a person. I got better at fighting back
verbally and physically, when the need arose. I started defending others
who were getting picked on. I could empathise with the down-trodden. It
made me a much better listener.

Most importantly, I stopped taking anyone's shit.

It took 4 years of high school to get me to that point, and it was a
slow and hard process. I had to unlearn a lot of things. I had to focus
on what made me what I am, and learn to be okay with what I was.

And now...?
-----------

Here I am, at the age of 27, married to a lovely woman, with a good job,
and a whole mess of friends. I've travelled the world, seen so many
things and I plan to see so many more. I'll have a house soon, children,
pets, a *vegetable garden*. I didn't even know I'd want one of those
until I was older. I have jumped out of a plane; I have hauled my body
up massive hills for incredible views; I have seen the worlds biggest
wooden Buddha. I have seen a church made of sculls; the worlds oldest
whiskey distillery; the most beautiful woman walking down the isle
towards me in a brilliant white dress. I have seen and done so much to
both be proud and ashamed of. I have had so many experiences.

I have lived an amazing life so far, and there's a lot more to it. My
bout of depression is behind me, a distant memory. My thoughts of
suicide long abolished from my thought patterns.

But I won't forget. I'll never forget how close I came. I'm glad, in a
way, that it happened. If I hadn't walked to the edge that day, I might
have done it another day. I may not have thought that life-saving
thought that day, and I wouldn't be here now.

I was young then, and much of what I dealt with was simply a product of
that: the issues of a young kid in school. On top of that, I was all
hormonal as is want to happen around that age, and that would have made
my brain even worse at handling what I was going through. My school life
sucked to me then though, and even though I can look back on it now and
shake my head at it all... well again, forest for the trees. I did have
some friends, I wasn't utterly alone, and on some level I did know this,
but their voices were being drowned out by the crushing lack of social
acceptance. It's all very petty I'm sure, but at the time it was all a
very real and very personal problem.

If I could go back in time and change it, would I? No, I don't think so.
That moment helped make me who I am, and I can't begrudge it.

What I *would* like to do is go back and just tell my younger self that
eventually *it does get better*. He wouldn't believe me, and what's more
he would probably be spazzing out about the fact that he's talking to an
older version of himself. That would admittedly be *pants-wettingly*
cool, and would probably be enough incentive for him to keep on going.
Guess I can't be allowed to do that either then.

*Dang*.
