Title: Time
Date: 2008-06-23 00:28
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Bad bad bad, Personal
Slug: time
Status: published

Content for this site is pretty much bottom of the list at the moment. I
have a bunch of great ideas for the site, but I never have the time to
sit down and write said things. I know it may not seem like a lot, but
it takes me on average two hours to write a content post. I read and
re-read everything far too many times, and tend to fret over whether
something sounds the way it should. I personally feel that anything
you're posting to the Internet should at the very least convey something
about you.

Shoddy workmanship is not something I wish to convey. As a result, I'm
unwilling to pull an article out of my ass and present it. It's not what
I want, and I feel that anyone that takes the time to read my site
should be given something worth reading.

To give a run down, I've been amazingly busy at work recently. One of my
co-workers opted to move on with his life, and so the responsibilities
that he left behind have to be re-distributed. The opportunity has
fallen at my feet and I've had little choice but to pick it up, shoulder
it, and move on. I've ended up managing two projects, and found myself
both at work earlier, as well as leaving later. This is not a habit I
wish to become accustomed to, and I've made myself clear about this at
work. I'm grateful for the opportunity, but I'm making sure that they
know it is not a career path I wish to follow for longer than is
required of me.

Despite my statements, they feel I can do the job, and do it I shall.
This means that I'll have to spend whole days with the clients, which
will land me getting home at 8 or 9 at night. This eats away at my spare
time, and helps ensure that anything I want to get done, doesn't. Hell,
I even had to re-arrange a dental appointment because of this, and trust
me when I say that cavities are not something you want to leave alone.

Beyond that, I've been working on the new site layout, résumé, and
portfolio. This has taken a good portion of my time, because there's a
great deal of care being put into all of it. I stated before that I
don't want to put anything out onto the net that I didn't feel was
representative of me; this is no different. My website is an extension
of me, and as such should be representative of myself as well as my
abilities. Editing pre-made Wordpress themes are fine to begin with, but
when you're trying to become a graphic designer, it really doesn't make
much sense.

I've got the résumé done except for some minor standards work. I've
designed the new site layout, and I've just started on the markup. The
portfolio has been thought up, and now it's a matter if getting a design
I'm happy with. These have taken me way longer than I would have liked,
and I've only had time at night (an hour before bed every other night)
to work on these. The whole operation has been done in moonlighting-mode
for the past two weeks.

I also had to make sure that my first client, who will remain anonymous
for now, was happy with the work I did. This resulted in my having to
change a couple things with the forum, layout, and coppermine
installation I performed for him. I could usually only do this at 11 at
night, when it was otherwise my time. Once again, this eats into my
personal productivity time.

One also cannot forget the girlfriend, who I must spend time with. I
don't get a lot of time with her what with her being in school most of
the year (one more year though, and this statement can change), and so
any timeI do get with her is precious. My evenings are usually spent
with her, and so I'm not even getting home until nearly 11 pm every
night. This too cuts into my personal productivity time, which in turns
pushes everything back.

So as you can see, I've got a lot of things to deal with, and site
content is probably the least important part at the moment. It sucks,
but that's the way it is. I'm hoping that I'll be able to bring my
laptop with me on my business trip (*Jesus Christ I've got a business
trip*) and try and get some of my personal designing work out of the
way. I'm also hoping I can get the last two Doctor Who books of the
Timewyrm series out of the way so that I can at least think about some
massive 4 story review epic.

Until things settle down and I get some of my personal projects done, I
won't be able to keep up with my old Monday, Thursday routine. It's not
that I don't want to, it's that there aren't enough hours in the day,
and I needs my sleep.
