Title: Top Something Lists No. 1: Favorite Songs
Date: 2009-09-17 09:30
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Top Somethings
Tags: Music Reviews, Top Somethings
Slug: top-something-lists-no-1-favorite-songs
Status: published

That's right, I'm selling out and joining into the fad. I'm going to
start making some Top Something lists! Not to worry though, I'm planning
on keeping these personal, and not link bait. That's just not how I
roll.

Anyways, I give to you, in no certain order (I can never actually sort
these kinds of lists) my top ... lets say 10. My Top Ten favorite songs
of all time.<!--more-->\[singlepic id=662 w=400 h=400 float=right\]

### Iris - Goo Goo Dolls

Alright, If I had to choose a song to be my favorite, this would
probably have to be it. I cannot think of a song for the life of me that
I can say I've loved for as long as this one. I first heard it on the
soundtrack of City of Angels. This is also where I fell in love with
Nicolas Cage, but that's neither here nor there.

Something about the composition of the song, the message therein, and my
love of acoustic guitar just makes this song hit a spot with me. If you
can find and play the acoustic version of this song when I'm around,
you'll see me smile.

### Voices - Yoko Kanno

You may or may not know this, but as a young man I was quite into Animé.
I grew up in the time of Dragonball and Sailor Moon, so on some level I
figure it was bound to happen. Now I'll be the first to admit that
neither of those are stellar examples of animé, but everyone has to
start somewhere. Somewhere down the line Télétoon played Macross Plus in
four parts. I managed to stay up late and watch these four parts.

I am so very glad I did.

Now I will say that I've never actually watched Macross, a sin my
brothers never really forgave me for, so much of the back story to
Macross Plus was lost on me. Thankfully, you don't need to know
everything that transpired in Macross to 'get' Macross Plus. I'm getting
off topic, but I had to gush a little.

Anyways, Yoko Kanno did a lot (if not all) of the music for Macross
Plus, and I can say that it's got some of the best music for an animé
that I know of. Second and third place are Cowboy Bebop and Trigun, but
again we're getting off topic. One of the songs from Macross Plus is
called Voices. Something about the subtle tones, and the voice of the
singer in it hits me in a soft spot. It's a little sad, and a little
soft, but it's an amazing song.

Best part? It sounds good in both Japanese (original) and English
(dubbed version).

### Kryptonite - 3 Doors Down

I'm not a fan of Superman, so this is a somewhat odd choice, considering
it's basically about him. Anyways, to top it off I'm not even a fan of 3
Doors Down so how would one of their oldest songs become a favorite?

Once again, animé comes to the rescue. Specifically animé music videos
or AMVs were pretty big when I was young, and though I'm too lazy to
check, I'm pretty sure they're still around. The video I'm talking about
in question was about Gundam Wing W, and the song featured was
Kryptonite.

Beyond being a very solid music video, which was on key and topical, the
song just got to me. It could have been my repeated watching of said
video, it could have been my impressionable youth sucking in the media,
who's to say? The end result was this quick-paced, dark-esque song
hitting a spot with me. It's got a solid beat, it's got good lyrics, and
it lands itself a spot in my brains' appreciation centres.

get\_leader

### Somewhere Out There - Our Lady Peace

Ah, now here's a song that tugs a bit at my wistful heartstrings. This
song came out just when I had my first real crush on someone. We spent a
lot of time together, and she was a huge fan of The MTV. When we hung
out, this song was on the charts, and for some reason it just stuck with
me.

Now all that aside, it's a fantastic song, and is a great love song
without being a great love song. It's heart-felt, it's well-written, and
it moves me.

And let's not for get that Our Lady Peace is a fantastic band, and
loving one of their songs shouldn't really be that big of a stretch of
the imagination.

### Mixtape - Butch Walker

I love Butch Walker. I've stated this before, but it needs stating
again. I love Butch Walker, were I woman I would have troublingly dirty
thoughts about him, but as I am a male, I simply wish I could be him.

Anyways, this was, as near as I can tell, Butch Walkers first big hit.
It's a song about love never had, and given my terrible streak in my
love life (before Theresa, thankfully) and so something about the song
just speaks to me. I may sound like a little bitch, but that's just how
it is.

### All Over You - The Spill Canvas

This song is my favorite "I'm want to fuck your brains out" song.
Ironically I've never had sex to this song, but that really doesn't
matter. It's got a strong base beat, the lyrics are impressively sexual
and angry, and it's just... fantastic. Granted I could be somewhat
biased as I've been a Spill Canvas fan for years…

It's a great song and easily my favorite off of the album from which it
came. That's "No Really, I'm Fine" in case anyone is wondering.

### Konstantine - Something Corporate

It was a little torn between listing this song or Bruised from Jacks
Mannequin, but in the end I chose Konstantine. Why? Maybe it's the fact
that it's a 9 minute epic of bleeding heart singing. Maybe it's the
fantastic use of piano from start to finish. Maybe I'm just a sucker for
heart-felt writing and high-pitched male singers.

In the end it doesn't matter because the fact remains that this song
rocks my socks completely off. It's an amazing song that you don't even
notice is playing until your 5 minutes in and your brain clicks in that
this isn't just another background noise song.

get\_leader

### If (Jeannie's Song) - Butch Walker

Two Butch songs on this list? How dare I!  I told you I loved him didn't
I? Not two  paragraphs ago? Yes, I'm sure that I did. In any case, I've
been a fan since I first heard the song, and years later I still love
it. It's rockish and a little sad, with just a touch of angst. It's
everything younger me loved, but somehow years later it still strikes me
as a solid song.

Bouncy, morose, and long enough without dragging itself out too long.

### Doomsday - Murray Gold

Le Gasp! A song without lyrics! Can Corey even listen to music without
lyrics? Yes, as it turns out, I can. I have quite a love for theme
songs, orchestra, and video game music. Anything that is soundtrack
related can usually find it's way into my grubby little hands at some
point or another. I've got a variety of movies and TV show themes
sitting in my iTunes right now (Rescue Rangers represent), so it's only
natural that Doctor Who would eventually find it's way in.

I'm a big, big fan of most of the stuff that Murray Gold has put out for
Doctor Who, but Doomsday stuck way, way out to me. Sure "Father's Day"
and "Rose's Theme" are great tracks, and "This Is Gallifrey: Our
Childhood, Our Home" is close to the feeling for Doomsday, none of them
really compare in my mind.

I'll grant that I have the moment of Rose and the Doctor separated
between the wall forever fried into my brain, which probably contributes
to just how much this song hits me, but still! It's a stunning piece and
it sends shivers down my spine every time I hear it.

When I hear this song, I'm moved to say "Fuck. Yes." either in my head
or out loud. It's that awesome.

### Wonderwall - Oasis

A classic, as far as I'm concerned. I can't remember when it came out (I
could look it up, but I'm far too lazy) but it's been in my head for as
long as I could remember. It's one of those songs that you can totally
forget about, but then hear it on the radio, and it's like it never
left. It's got the power of
[Revertago](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=revertigo&defid=3025190 "Urban Dictionary: Revertago").
It's like an old friend that you meet up with after years of separation.
It all feels the same regardless of the years between seeing.

It's got a good sound to it, a good beat, and everything about that song
drips of awesome. Also, it's a Rock Band 2 downloadable track so now you
can even play it there. What's not to love?
