Title: UP (2009)
Date: 2009-06-18 09:30
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Amazing!, Movie Reviews, Reviews
Tags: 9/10, Movie Reviews, Pixar, UP
Slug: up
Status: published

I've never really been let down by
[Pixar](http://www.pixar.com/index.html "Pixar.com"). There is a reason
why their movies do so well: Quality. Every Pixar movie I've seen I have
enjoyed. Last year I watched
[Wall-E,](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/walle/ "Pixar.com: Wall-E")
though I didn't have time to write about it. Had I, I would have given
it a solid 10/10 because there was nothing
[Wall-E](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/walle/ "Pixar.com: Wall-E")
did less than amazing.

[UP](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/up/ "Pixar.com: UP") sits right
under
[Wall-E](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/walle/ "Pixar.com: Wall-E")
on the awesome scale. It's not as epically beautiful, nor is it quite as
artistically stunning, but it's pretty damned close.

<!--more-->\[singlepic id=630 w=400 h=400 float=left\]
[UP](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/up/ "Pixar.com: UP") is a story
about multiple characters, some present, some painfully absent. Carl
Frederickson has always wanted to be an adventurer. As a young,
round-faced child, he watches his childhood hero (Charles F. Muntz) on
the big screen in wide-eyed wonder.

On his way home, he comes across Ellie, a fellow adventurer in training.
We are then treated to a 20 minute montage of love and life with Carl
and Ellie with all of the joys and heartaches that come therein. The
montage ends with one of the saddest scenes I have ever seen Pixar
create. Carl sitting, alone, in a darkened funeral home. I had to choke
back tears, and this was only 10 minutes into the film.

We are then presented with is now a typical morning of Carl, placed to
classical music, exquisitely timed, and a horrible scene of what will
probably end up being me when I'm old. After a shockingly adult
altercation between Carl and a construction worker, Carl is forced to go
to an old-age home. The day he was to leave, he opts to lift his house
out of the ground and finish an adventure Ellie and He had planned to do
for years.

That's when he discovers Russel on his porch.

Gushing Time
------------

I cannot explain just how amazing and subtle much of the dialogue
actually is. Listening to Carl talk to Ellie under his breathe is both
close to home to all of us (you all know you talk to people who aren't
there) and painful. Carl's underlying guilt through much of the film is
subtle, but there, and it really adds depth to what would otherwise be a
straight-forward kids adventure movie.

Russel is another twist for Pixar. In [Finding
Nemo](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/nemo/ "Pixar.com: Finding Nemo"),
we were presented with a single-parent scenario. Something that is
usually avoided in kids movies. In UP, Russel has a father that works to
much, and a step mom that he calls by first-name. This throws of Carl as
well as much of the audience. He puts on a brave face and wears his love
and hope on his sleeve when he talks about his dad, but even his pain
cannot be properly masked. It was heartbreaking listening to him talk
about his family, and I'm sure most of the kids that see this movie
won't really appreciate the depth to which the writers went to.

Russel also has some of the most damningly honest dialogue in the entire
film. Listening to him complain about walking is something that every
grown up remembers saying, and most parents have heard some sort of
variation therein. He's simple and Carl can't stand him, but like most
children they can't help but grow on you.

Kevin the Bird and Dug the (talking) Dog are both used to the best of
their ability. Neither are over-played, but are used with the flare and
understanding that I've come to expect from Pixar. Dug provides some of
the best lines I have ever heard from an animated film including (but
not limited to):

> I have just met you and I love you.
>
> Squirrel!                  Hi there!
>
> I was hiding under your porch because I love you.

The visuals in UP are fantastic, if not slightly stylized. That's Pixars
way though. All of their movies tend to have their own stylistic flare
while retaining the properties that make the movie inherently Pixar-ish.
Fun fact: The balloons were animated by program, because it was
impossible to animate them by hand. The same goes for Kevins feathers,
and Russel's hair. It took them over a year to figure out the system for
the Balloons alone. That is dedication, and I love Pixar all the more
for going that far for a convincing story.

The only thing I could possibly complain about is that the actual
storyline in and of itself is somewhat weak. Thankfully there is so much
more going on around that initial storyline that it doesn't even matter.
So many other stories are unfolding around it that it more than makes up
for any weakness found in the main line.

get\_leader

Partly Cloudy
-------------

I have to give a shout-out to the opening short: [Partly
Cloudy](http://www.pixar.com/shorts/pc/index.html "Pixar.com: Partly Cloudy").
A story about where babies come from, using the classic stork
methodology. The storks fly to clouds that produce baby puppies,
kittens, and people. They are then bundled up and flown out to awaiting
homes.

But what about the babies that that no one really thinks of? Baby
alligators, Sharks, and Porcupines? They have to come from somewhere,
and that somewhere is the Gus the cloud. His partner, Peck the Stork, is
entrusted in carrying all of these dangerous babies to their awaiting
homes.

I cannot describe just how funny this short is. Theresa and I were
alternating between laughing out loud -borderline obnoxiously laughing-
and crying and convulsing from the levels of funny that we were getting
from the film. I really wish you could watch it online, but it's a
little hard to find.

Overall
-------

Up is magical. It's stunning, It's funny, and It's got appeal for any
and everyone, regardless of age. I plan to own it when it comes out, and
I will make sure my children watch if both when they are young, and when
they get older. There is so much to appreciate in this film that you
simply must watch it at different stages of your life.

If you miss the opportunity to see this in theaters, you are doing
yourself a grave injustice. I happened to see it in 3D, but I've been
told that it is just as magical without things pretending to pop out of
the screen. You simply have to see this film. There's really nothing
else to it.

It's not as stunning as
[Wall-E,](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/walle/ "Pixar.com: Wall-E"),
which is the best animated film I have seen to date, but if
[Wall-E,](http://www.pixar.com/featurefilms/walle/ "Pixar.com: Wall-E")
was a 100 on the scale, then
[UP](http://disney.go.com/disneypictures/up/ "Pixar.com: UP") is a 98.

9/10
