Title: Wicked (October 1995)
Date: 2007-11-28 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Book Reviews, Reviews
Tags: 7.5/10, book, Book Reviews, Gregory Maguire, Reviews, Wicked, Wicked Witch of the West
Slug: wicked
Status: published

> The Witch could wait. They would meet again - Excerpt from Wicked: The
> Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West

The book is quite literally about what it says it is about: *The life
and times of the Wicked Witch of the West*. Seriously, that's what it is
about. The book centres around the life of Elphaba, the green-skinned,
sharp-featured and sharp-tongued girl who would one day be the Wicked
Witch of the West, and who would be felled by a [young girl from
Kansas](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dorothy_Gale "Dorothy Gale"). The
book is split into different stages of Elphaba's life and seem more like
snippets rather than entire sections. I had to admit that I was
skeptical about what this book could possibly provide for me, but at 519
pages (at least my copy was) it had to be saying *something*.

As it turns out it says an awful lot, and for the most part it does so
with page-turning entertainment. It touches on many topics that though
Elphaba seems to be intertwined with, is not the direct cause of. Topics
such as segregation, political intrigue, affairs, oppression, and
depression. Though these topics may be old hat to those who pay
attention to the world around us, it must still be noted that these very
topics are so casually and seamlessly integrated into the book that I
didn't even realize how well a job Mr. Maguire had done until I was
nearly done the book. The writing style is both smooth and easy to
follow and doesn't get bogged down with the multitudes of detail that
plague many fantasy novels.

Mr. Maguire does a very good job of building a world that mirrors what
was [originally
made](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Land_of_Oz "Land of Oz"), but adding
his own touch of realism to it. Gone are the sing-a-longs and the joy
joy feelings, and in their places are real characters, a depth to the
different peoples of Oz, and an underlying tension within the societies.
Characters are given as much back story and development as is needed,
which may sound like a bit of a cop-out, but it isn't. The characters
don't seem shallow, but neither are there pages dedicated to needless
character introductions when they do not play a major role.

As previously mentioned, the book is cut into sections which dictate the
happenings throughout Elphaba's life within given points in time. This
is a double-edged blade, as there are sections that I wanted to continue
reading, and others - namely the last - that I wished to be shorter. I
admit that there must be a cutoff point for each section, lest the book
move more into the 3000 page region, but still. I will say that i liked
the book for the most part. All sections excluding the last were
enjoyable and drew me in. Gregory really knows how to make you feel for
people.

Then the last section comes along, and it gets very meta-physical and
sort of fizzles out. The book ends much as one would expect, but I found
the ending to be rather weak in comparison to the rest of the book. It
left a sour taste in my mouth and had me wishing that I had stopped
reading a couple chapters before the end. This is easily the novels
major problem. The rest of it is a solid read it's the ending that takes
away from it all.

A good read, and worth reading at least once to say you have (it makes
those Sunday talks in the knitting circle that much more cultured) and
I'll still end up reading at least [Son of a
Witch](http://www.amazon.com/Son-Witch-Novel-Gregory-Maguire/dp/0060747226/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1196138231&sr=8-1 "Son of a Witch").

7/10
