Title: Word association thingy.
Date: 2008-12-04 09:30
Author: Corey Dutson
Category: Art, Random Thoughts
Tags: Random Thoughts, word association
Slug: word-association-thingy
Status: published

Let's have a little fun with this post. The idea came to me randomly
through the evening, and by now it's been stewing in my brain for just
long enough to have it start to make sense. I could also be going a tad
insane from school, but I have no way of proving that as of yet.

So here's the idea: I'm going to pick a word at random, and then
continue writing down all the words and first thoughts I have based on
that word and everything that follows. Things may not actually follow in
a fluid pattern. I'm sure this will be a clear window into the dark
regions of my mind. To stop outside influences, I am performing this
without any music, Television or other stimulus.

You've been warned.

P.S. I invite any and everyone to participate in the comments!

<!--more-->

### First attempt:

Cabin, crab, cake, cone, arboretum, Algonquin, tether, plink, plankton,
absolute, jackson, mrow, appleby, huckleberry, Adrien, pinto, Zack,
cack, Orlando, Mesopotamia, gold, gilded, Greek, merium, bottle,
cranberry, choir,Â  sing-a-long, lois gram and Sharron, skiminarink a
dink e dink, elephant, umbrella, trumpet sounds, Babylon, platsky,
groin, cabin, I'm thinking about cabin a lot. weird, Singapore,
Mercedes, merecat, boo ba loo, coo coo kajoo, Randy Pausch, Patterson,
Bill Cosby, rev, electrify, meowmix, deliver, litter box, cat, to do,
cabbage patch kids, Indiana Jones, amazon, Atlantis, sam n max, Lucas,
x-wing, space quest, I wonder what that detective game was called,
Mississippi, Mississauga, Florida, Massachusetts, Klingon, some popular
techno song on the radio; name escapes me, womanizer, fuck, crapshoot,
puppy, portapotty, ring tone, fuck womanizer is stuck in my head,
foundations, clone high, student bodies, joke, driving, broom,
valentines, toupe, Kraken, Jesus jumping sticks, Adam Sandler, Trisha,
Megatron, lyrics from grow old with you playing in my head now, fuck
womanizer again, Adam Crosby (i have no idea why this name sticks in my
head), Barny Rubble, fruity pebbles, restaurant, pod, bubble plinko,
Tarzan, techno song again, tag, flippant, Doctor Who, jazz hands,
"keeg", "hey you guys", boat, Warcraft, jinx, jip, Nippon, ax, ax to
grind, jurassicsaurus rex, free, egg, eggy, loony toons, good idea bad
idea, Taylor, wacky, Peru, New Zealand, zap, Zelda, alphabetical, jacks,
train, train station, ticket, conductor, stuttering, snakes on a train,
ese, womanizer again ( I don't even know the fucking words), slob, slut,
teeter, clip, clank, zipper, traction, tire, ice, phone phoenix,
trailer, techno song again, closer, jammin', hero, hank, husband, zero,
Garland, Tesla, ow, electric, vote, vixen, viceroy, VIM, Maylox,
shoppers candidate, tile, trinket, train, ziffer, crane, tanner,
trachea, voice box, "mmmnnngggg", book, Captain Jack, eh ohh, Dance
Dance Revolution, Playdium, round-about, ka-ching, loser lounge, laser,
Dr. Evil saying "laser", "throw me a frikin bone", sharks with lasers on
their head, ill-tempered. that's a start, cindy loo hoo, kazba, zombies,
neck, west, Atreyu, zinger, car park, Cheat Commandos, "rock rock on",
"aww fiddlesticks", "pony on pony action", dysentery, gold mine, oxen,
over and out, flounder, axiom, flowers, zero, taboo, Matlock, action,
mega monster movie store, help me out i need it, killers, lyrics,
without you, callus, dire ants, Mt. Fuji, dreadlocks, tatters, train,
traction, genius, trambler, island perk.

### Attempt number two:

pineapple, conga, testosterone, wanker, weenis, dean, twang, tazzer,
willywoddle, jack the ripper, red, night, dark, James,imbew, traction,
sword, train, Star Wars, rebel, rebellion, android, apple, Adrien
(again?), executor, "For Aiur", I love the combat, arbiter, Terran,
Zerg, Zergling rush, bunker, Starcraft, Wo lo loo, Wood please, Stone
please, I'll beat you back to Age of Empires I, Moonraker, bond, Sean
Connery, James Bond Theme now playing in my head, Casino Royale, card,
spade, jack, blackjack, bluff, citron, drink, woman, tar and feather.

At this point I got stuck.

### Attempt number three:

Compass, initiation, tabloid, paper, article, newsprint, lithography,
tainted, grant, book, while looking at my book: ladder, fireman, hose,
water, dog, dalmatian, fire pole, calendar, stupid firemen, flames,
building, "save my baby!", tree, cat, The Incredibles, "you should learn
to be more... flexible" marriage, kids, ice cube, baby, step-ladder,
food, fruit rollup, snacks, fruit by the foot, sweet tarts, brownies,
doughnuts, Zehrs, flours, bread, eggs, meat, deli, cold deli,
flame-grilled whopper, burger king, THE KING, wallet, fries, deep fryer,
kids zone, DC: DISCOVER ZONE, Daniel, cheating, stamp, bathroom, car,
Doolies, drunk, blue not green, puking, white carpet, going to work hung
over, parmigiana, smells, kid puking, cardboard scoop, cheese, Hungarian
salami, mask, Darth Vader, Hoth, solo, Jaba talking about Solo, AH HA HA
(Jaba laugh), UUEEEEHEHEHHEHEHEH (Jabas pet), cantina band, butt-face,
Carl, Simpsons, Moe, Lisa, elementary school, skinner, blue hair, willy,
hallways, tunnel, train, traction (again? wtf), Action Jackson, JACK
DUTSON, Jack (from Doctor Who), Owen, "Doctor!", \*TARDIS noise\*, phone
bill, ring ring, GOING TO BE KILLED BY A CHRISTMAS TREE!, Jackie,
vwooosh, ping, ta da!

I am a screwed up individual.
