Title: A Lesson In Driving
Date: 2008-02-18 23:35
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Bad bad bad, bitch, driving, snow
Slug: a-lesson-in-driving
Status: published

Alright, so a post at 11:30 pm on the day you say you're going to post
still counts right? Regardless, here we are. My only defense is that I
was no where near a computer for the time required to actually put
something together. I'll make it up to any/everyone that actually reads
this.

Anyways, todays little post is a little bit of a bitch. That is to say
that I am bitching about something that to this day manages to blow my
mind.

Why the hell can't people drive in the snow?
--------------------------------------------

Seriously, it's been around longer than we have. We have developed
wheel-drives, tires, break-styles, wiper-blades, anti-freezing,
self-heating, Pi-calculating cars. So despite our advances against the
frozen flecks of water still manage to turn everyone into drooling,
knuckle-dragging morons whos only response to having to drive in the
stuff is to go under twenty km at any given time. For those out there
still using the imperial system, that's roughly 12.4 miles per hour.

Todays example will revolve around the recent swing in temperature
changes: It was cold and rainy, but alright. Then the sun went down,
things got cold, and thanks to nature, the roads started to freeze.
Shortly after that it started snowing, which blanketed things in a layer
of snow. I admit, these are not road conditions wherein driving
excessively is a smart idea. I would even go so far as to say that to
err on the side of caution would indeed be the better choice. Caution
doesn't need to be 10 km (6.2 Mph).

Yeah so you can't drive as fast, I get that, but going so slow I can
out-walk your car just so that you can 'safely' ride the bumper of the
car in front of you as you would at regular speeds is, at best,
retarded. You can drive faster, if you actually allow yourself the time
to stop. What this generally means is that you back the fuck off, and
leave room between you and the car you're trying to ride in front of
you. This is generally good practice in optimal driving conditions as
well, if only to help avoid accidents by giving your dumb-ass time to
react.



Additionally, you can actually drive *on the snow* instead of the lanes
that other cars have driven in. When you are facing the possibility of
driving on the black ice that every other car preceding has contributed
to, you can actually shift your car a bit to the left or right and drive
on the snow which has been otherwise left alone. This will allow you to
actually gain now-valuable traction, and get you to where you're going
before you die and ripen from old age while whimpering in your car,
cursing mother nature as you plow your gas pedal into the floor,
wondering why oh why wont your tires find grip?

Maybe these little things are not common sense for some, but for those
of us that live in an area that has frequent and shitty winter weather
conditions, I would assume that after a while people would be able to
adapt and drive in said weather conditions with some modicum of ability.
Apparently this knowledge is only reserved for those who live in
perpetual snow, or happen to actually *drive* in it. I've driven through
conditions that would blow peoples minds, and so maybe that has given me
some keen insight into how to drive in the winter. A lot of it, however
comes from not being retarded.

One last note, get winter tires. All-seasons will not cut it when push
comes to shove, as today clearly proved to me. I know this because last
year I drove my little
[Yaris](http://www.wheels.ca/article/2889 "2007 Toyota Yaris") around in
the winter and slid through many a stop sign, because I simply did not
have the grip available to me. Lessons have been learned and this year I
dropped the coin on it. I've not regretted the decision. Maybe you don't
need them, but I can assure you that the difference they make is
noticeable, and you will not regret the decision.

Fuck sakes people, I drive a Yaris and I navigate this weather better
than the SUVs, Trucks, and about 70% of the other drivers on the road
that managed to spin out for no God damned reason. My car is tiny and
super-light, and yet somehow here I am driving like an apparent winter
veteran. That's sad people, sad.
