Title: Dear Canada: You need to vote, goddamnit.
Date: 2011-04-21 23:43
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Canada, Harper, Liberals, politics, Vote, voting
Slug: dear-canada-you-need-to-vote-goddamnit
Status: published

I try and avoid political issues for the most part. That is to say, I
try and avoid writing about them. I try to do so because there are
better venues to have these discussions,which thanks to the Internet,
generally degrade into tinfoil hat-wearing crap-slingers raging at each
other. It's hard to have an intelligent conversation about it 90% of the
time, so it's best to avoid it on small blogs.

That said, I'm going to break my rule a bit here and make a point to say
that Canada, as a 'great example' of a democracy has some of the worst
voting numbers I have ever seen. I'll admit that I'm not that old, but
there is [imperial data to back me
up](http://www.elections.ca/content.aspx?section=ele&dir=turn&document=index&lang=e "Elections Canada - Voter turn out 1867 - 2008"),
and the percentages have been slipping like my grades did throughout
highschool.

To be honest, it's a fucking disgrace, and we as a country should be
utterly fucking ashamed.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->


Vote, goddamnit
---------------

I am probably a tad biased - in more ways than one - due to the fact
that one of my friends is a full-fledged Liberal, as well as a
political-science super brain. He has instilled upon me the massive
importance that comes with voting. To be straight about it, voting is a
very simple (yet powerful) way of trying to get a say in how your
country is run.

That's not all it does though. Did you know that the more votes a party
gets, the more money it get the next time around to campaign? That means
the more votes they get, the more they can get their message out. That
means that if you actually do support a party (or an independent) they
get a better chance the next time around to get more votes. That's
pretty goddamned important too.

On top of that, voting isn't a right that you can *choose* to wave. It's
a privilege that you **squander** every time you refuse/spoil/just cant
get your ass to a voting poll. I don't know if you've been paying
attention to things going on in some of the Middle East lately, but let
me break it down for you: *People are getting motherfucking shot, just
for the chance to motherfucking vote*. I mean god*damn*it people! There
are other people who are ***actually dying*** for the chance to have the
very choice you refuse due to reasons you cannot validate to me.

There isn't any reason you can give me not to vote: "*No one to vote
for?*" Bullshit. You just haven't bothered to look into the plethora of
options available to you. "*I was busy that day?*" There are advanced
polls and special ballots for that. "*I'm not living in the country?*"
This one is my excuse and even I found a way to do it, though too late
for me to actually manage it (by the time I found out how, there wasn't
enough time to get stuff mailed to/from Canada). I do, however know for
the next time voting time comes around. Guess what? You [can still vote
out
side](http://www.elections.ca/content.aspx?section=vot&dir=reg/svr&document=index&lang=e "Elections Canada - Voting abroad.")of
Canada.

Unless you're dead or in a coma (and that doesn't actually stop some
people from voting), there isn't a single thing you can say to me that
will make me think you've got a reason to get out of it. Nothing. You
have the ability to do what many in the world cannot. Fuck you if you
can't take advantage of that.

Get interested
--------------

I'm not saying you start reading everything about every political party
all the time. That'd be a vast amount of bullshit you'd have to take in
all the time. But a little bit of research goes a long goddamned way.
Take a couple minutes out of your busy schedule and see just what is
going on in your country. It's not hard. There are many a publication,
both in paper and via the Internets that will spell out what's going on.
Hell, each party even has its own website, if you want to see what they
(more or less) stand for.

I myself am not a political pundit. I do not know about what every party
is doing all the time. I know who I support, and I know why. I also know
who is more or less the antithesis to what and how I want my country
run, and why. I've made the effort. It doesn't take long. Hell, people
make websites [like
this](http://shitharperdid.ca.nyud.net/ "Shit Harper Did.") that help
spell some things out.

Seriously, just do a little goddamned research. Don't vote for who your
parents vote for. Don't vote who your friends vote for. Do a little
research and make an informed decision. A lot of the parties hope that
you'll just follow your friends and family, because as long as they get
them sided up right, they don't need to worry about *you*.

A special note to Mr. Rick Mercer, and a note to the youth of Canada
--------------------------------------------------------------------

First off, [watch
this](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MhgYhcTl95w "Rick Mercer - Vote young people.").
I'll wait.

Done? Good, I'll continue.

As it stands, the youth of Canada historically, have the worst voter
turn-out numbers. That's depressing. We're the ones who are generally
the most impacted by the decisions, and yet we do nothing to affect
them. We can do better.

That video came out at the end of March, and it's taken some hold in the
youth of Canada. I have to say as a man edging out of that group, I'm
glad that maybe, just maybe, I wouldn't be the minority in the group to
actually vote. Young people everywhere in Canada are slowly realizing
that having a say in who runs the country is actually important. There
are a lot of young, eligible voters, and as Rick says himself 'that
scares the hell out of 'em'. Seriously, there are over 3 million
potential votes sitting there, don't waste them.

But really, I extend that to everyone, not just the youth. I'll admit
that youth voting was particularly horrifying in the last election, but
the country as a whole sucked a long and hard one when it came to voter
turn-out. I mean really, [look at the
numbers](http://www.elections.ca/content.aspx?section=ele&dir=turn&document=index&lang=e "Elections Canada - Voter turnout 1867 - 2008"):
58%. ***Fifty. Eight. Percent.***

What the fuck is *that*? We tote ourselves as one of the
great democracies of the world, but **almost half** of us didn't even
vote! That, right there, is bullshit. That's well beyond unacceptable.
That's borderline *criminal*.

So.
---

I'm not going to tell you who to vote for. I could, but I've already
given some advice as to doing your own research and coming to your own
results.

I'm a Liberal with NDP leanings, I'll make no secret of that. I also
think that Harper is a horrible person, as well as a horrible leader. I
also think the Harper government (what WAS called the ruling government
of Canada, until he renamed it) should be utterly removed from power.

That's not the point though. This post isn't about who you vote for.
That is your decision, and I'll respect that regardless of your choice.
What I cannot and will not respect is not voting or spoiling your vote.
Your country raised you better than that. There are others who would,
and have, died for that chance. Don't you dare go and throw it away.

Vote.
