Title: How Apple won my loyalty
Date: 2011-07-14 15:00
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Amazing!, Apple, Humans are good sometimes, Mind=Blown, police
Slug: how-apple-won-my-loyalty
Status: published

I'm not an Apple fanboy. Truly I'm not. Now that said, I have a macbook,
an iPad, and an iPhone that I have through my current workplace. By all
accounts, one would think that I am a total fanboy. I mean, I own pretty
much one of their everything. I'll even go on to say that I really,
*really* enjoy their products; I like the iPhone/iPad interactions, I
enjoy the iterations of their OS, and I appreciate the aesthetic of
their products.

I have never been a total fan though. At the end of the day, they are
tools that I use to get things done throughout my day. I don't hold them
in any higher regard than the PCs that I use at my workplace (or grew up
with). I've had my issues with their products as well and I'll be the
first to point them out. I will also be the first in line to point out
that Apple has 'screwing their clientele' down to a high art. I mean,
they have a release schedule and setup that makes sure that everyone
that purchases their wares will be jealous of those who purchase the
next iteration. They can really be dicks like that. They engineer demand
so well that there should be a degree in it available to higher
education locales.

But as of Thursday, July 7th, 2011, I can say that I am now a loyal
customer of Apple. Still not a fanboy, but they've secured my loyalty.
And all it took was an email.


<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->
[![apple](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/apple-410x256.jpg "apple")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/apple.jpeg)

The Story
---------

To understand my new-found loyalty, we have to roll back to July 1st,
2011. Canada Day, for anyone that is unaware happens on this day. As a
proud Canadian I went off to the large London-based party that took
place in Trafalgar Square. It was a fun day despite a gross lack of
cider, and fun was had by all. I was decked out in Canadian stuff
(shirt, tattoos, etc.) and I was even wearing shorts! I almost never
wear shorts due to a general lack of ownership as well as a general
distaste for them.

As the day wore down, I, along with my friends, decided to head on home
as we were a bit drunk, a bit tired, and in my case a bit (a lot)
sunburnt. We took the district line from Embankment, and then transfered
to the National rail at Liverpool street. After getting off the train
and walking half way home from the station to my house, I noticed that
my phone was missing.

Now I knew that I had my phone when I got onto the underground at
Embankment, so I had either lost it or my phone had been nicked whilst I
was on the train. This can basically be blamed on my shorts - damn you
shorts! - since they have wide, shallow pockets, and that's a bad thing
when you are sitting down with a long phone in said pocket. Regardless,
my phone was gone.

*Fuck.*

For those that have never lost their phone, let me describe it to you:
*it sucks*. It sucks *badly*. It sucks even more if you're a tech addict
like me, and even more so if you legitimately need your phone to do
thinks like call people and services.

[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/findmyiphone-410x410.jpg "Find my iPhone")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/findmyiphone.jpg)

As soon as I got home, I jumped onto my
[mobileMe](http://me.com "Apple.com - MobileMe") account. Thankfully,
I'm involved in the iOS 5 beta (thanks
[@geofas](http://twitter.com/#!/geofas "Twitter.com - Geofas")), which
means that I have free access to their Find My Iphone services
(something that will be free for everyone, and was formerly a paid-for
perk of the mobileMe service). I sent a message to the phone - 'If you
could turn this phone in, that would be amazing' -  but I had to wipe
the phone anyways. Why? Because it's a company phone, and it's got a lot
of stuff on it that I'd get hell for if it leaked. Nothing sinister, but
important work I.P. stuff.

Anyways, once you wipe your iPhone you can no longer track it. This was
a sad reality that I just had to take. I had no hope of anyone actually
turning in an iPhone 4. I mean, it's an iPhone 4 in full working order.

On monday, I got the IMEI and SIM numbers from my work and logged the
phone as lost with the TFL and National Rail. I wasn't expecting much. I
didn't even bother reporting it to the police, because in
all truthfulness, there isn't really much they can do. I logged an order
with my work for a new phone, and whimpered at the £450+ cost attached
to my own stupidity. It was an expensive mistake.

"But Corey!" you sputter, " Surely a man of your rugged good looks and
shining brillance would have phone insurance, no?" No. I didn't. I
almost do now, I have to wait a week after upgrading my bank account but
I didn't have it at the time. Some friends suggested I get some for a
phone that I no longer possessed, wait a week, and then report it lost.
Basically they suggested I commit fraud. I declined, because I was going
to take my costly lesson with as much good grace as I could muster. The
high ground sucks sometimes.

I'll skip the part where I went through horrible tech withdrawal.
Suffice it to say, it's horrible, and I totally understand people who
are quitting smoking. Well, the mental portion anyways. I didn't suffer
from the shakes or anything, but I was irritable as shit and perpetually
frustrated at everyone around me that still had their phones. It was
bad, man, real bad.

As the week went on, I kept an eye on my email, hoping that I'd see an
email show up from TFL or National Rail. On Thursday the 7th, I got an
email from Apple Support. Now I hadn't logged anything with them, and so
I thought it was probably spam. Just to be on the safe side though I
opened the mail, and was given the following:

> Mr. Corey dutson
>
> We were contacted today, <wbr>because your iphone was found,<wbr> it is in :  
>  Shepherds Bush Police Station  
>  226 Shepherds Bush Road  
>  Hammersmith  
>  London  
>  W6 7NX</wbr></wbr>
>
> kind regards,  
>  andreia, apple team\*

\*This is actually the address for the Hammersmith Metro Police station.
Apple sorta screwed that up, but looking at the street name, I totally
get why they could screw that up.

Now either this was the most specific spam email ever, or it was a legit
email from Apple. I was willing to take that chance. I dropped what I
was doing, jumped on the train, and made my way to the address. Then I
went to the real address after I found out Apple gave me the wrong one.
I walked into the police station and 5 minutes, some joking, and a lot
of thank yous later, I was re-united with my phone.

We had celebratory Thai food that night. It was *divine*.

[![](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/iphone4-410x336.jpg "This changes everything. Again.")](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/iphone4.jpg)

What happened?
--------------

As near as I can tell, when I logged into the Find My iPhone system and
wiped my phone, Apple must have flagged the IMEI number in relation to
my account. When the phone was plugged in, charged, and processed at the
police station, Apple must have been alerted through the phone popping
up in iTunes or the like. They then emailed me to let me know where it
was, and I got my phone back, against all the odds.

The result?
-----------

Apple didn't have to do that. I hadn't logged a support request with
them, nor ever paid for mobileMe. They had no obligation to do anything
about it, and yet they did. Sure it's not a large amount of effort on
their part, and I'm sure most of it is automated anyways. The point is:
they did me a small kindness, and I got my phone back.

What basically equated to about 40 seconds of effort on their part
reunited me with my phone. If they hadn't done that, I would have to
purchase another one of their products. Their emailing me actually
stopped them from making a sale. It did, however, make me see them in a
new light and they've secured my pocket book for a good long while to
come now. That's an amazing long-term view and a gamble, and more
companies should think like this. It fosters loyalty that you just cant
buy with discounts or free soda.

So you know what? People can go on and on about how they screw their
customers, their price-points are insane, and all their stuffs for
hipsters, designers, etc. All I know is they've made themselves one more
loyal customer, and all for sending an email.

One more thing...
-----------------

The police wouldn't give me the contact details for the woman that
turned in the phone. I totally understand, but I'm a bit sad because I
can't thank her myself properly. I will say this though:

Thank you Ema. Thank you so much for doing what many others wouldn't
have done. You're a swell human being, and I hope you get that promotion
you want because damnit, you deserve it. Also, your hair looks *amazing*
today. Seriously, you've got like, TV hair goin' today. And hey, have
you been working out? You're looking really good! I am totally jealous.

You're awesome, but you already knew that didn't you.
