Title: Repent! The end hath come. Well not... you know not really. 
Date: 2010-11-30 13:02
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: work
Slug: repent-the-end-hath-come
Status: published

That is, of course, because after roughly 6 months, I am actually
writing something!

I hope you've found religion, because I'm going to start doing this more
often. What does this mean? This means that Corey is finally getting off
his lazy god-damned-ass and is going to start writing words in sequence
again.

Now if you put these sequenced words together, you will find that they
make sentences. These sentences, when grouped into logical sections
well, they become paragraphs. If I can actually manage to put enough of
these words onto a page, you could actually become entertained by what
may be considered an editorial, a review, or a terrifying essay about
clowns that live within your closet, just *waiting*.

What was I talking about?

Right, connecting words like Dr. Frankenstein. ***Science!***

Anyways, lets move right on to the obligatory 'whats new with me'
section.

So first off, I'm still alive and still living in London. The weather
has become somewhat colder and it's humorous to see the Londonites
becoming terrified by the impending snow. I mean good lord, they could
get a *whole couple of cm*. The world is coming to an end, one snow
flake at a time. I, however, am handling the weather fine because as you
know: *I'm not a total little bitch*. Update: It has been snowing all
day, and my co-workers are all a cringe.

I'm still working as a front end developer for the rather snazzy [Radley
Yeldar](http://ry.com/ "Radley Yeldar"). Actually, I may have not
actually mentioned that in my old post. I'm too lazy to actually read my
last post, so just to set the record straight; I do that now, and have
been for at least 6 months.

Anywho, I'll be the first to admit that working as a developer after
leaving a job that effectively burned me right out and going to school
for a couple years to become a graphic designer may seem, well,
counter-intuitive. I'd agree, but given that most of my work is a:
cutting up designs; b: doing a metric fuck-tonne of Javascript and
jQuery stuff; and c: learning from designers far far *far* better than
me; are all good skill-sets that I need to be subjected to learning more
of.

Oh, and It's not soul-crushing like my last job (there's an upcoming
post on that, trust me on that). I mean I actually get to go home on
time (with two nights exception where I had to go home at 11 pm).

As another side-bonus, I've become fairly good at jQuery development. I
can now develop plugins and such for the more commonly needed effects.
I'll keep you posted if/when they are released to the public. Because of
this, I'll probably end up writing some of my own and posting them here
(or on github, or both!) for the world to enjoy. This isn't a tech blog,
but I'm sure some code snippets will creep their way in.

Working this job has reminded me how much fun you can actually have
programming. Granted I'll never really get too far back into the
back-end stuff - we've got some very talented guys at RY that cover that
- but learning about HTML5, jQuery, getting right into web semantics,
and CSS3 is sadly exciting to me. Heck, the project I am currently
working on (which I cannot talk about quite yet)  has some badass
javascript to create some pretty swell user interaction. It's taken me
the better part of a friggin' week to get it working right, but I'm
really happy with how it's turning out. When it goes live, I'll be sure
to brag about it post a link here.

I am still with Theresa, so anyone who had bets on that, pay up. Also,
you guys are dicks. You shouldn't be betting on things like that. Jesus.

Theresa has a full-time job teaching children. How she handles 3 and 4
year old children I will never know. I would probably have been arrested
for mass geno..infans... toddlercide? I'd be a horrible teacher, lets
leave it at that. Some of the stories she tells me blow my mind.
Sometimes I can't grasp the fact that 3 year olds can be as smart as she
makes them out to me. This leads me to the realization that I have no
idea about the learning speed of children. I just assume they're stupid
until the age of about 26 or so.

Oh, I've been participating in Movember, which I don't really see much
point in posting here since it's the *end* of the month, and I probably
won't get a dime out of you. Regardless, feel free to have a look at [my
profile
page](http://uk.movember.com/mospace/666786/ "Corey Dutson - Movember")
and enjoy faces of the 'stache. A quick disclaimer: some of them will
probably upset you. My face has that power.

Now as for general website stuff.

Now you may have noticed that all pretty much all of the images are
broken on the website. This was caused by a server move and something
not being installed in the php build. I'll get that sorted soon. You may
also have noticed that the Twitter feed is.. well frozen. This has to do
with how twitter's changed auth, and plugin is being a bit of a shit
about it. I'm not overly worried, because of the next point:  *There is
a site re-design in the machinations*.

It was supposed to happen in September, but many things (work, life,
being one of the laziest bastards I know, etc) have hampered this. Now
that I am forcing myself to get my ass in gear, I'm not even happy with
the design I was cooking up (please not this was design 3 that you'll
never ever see).

Basically what I'm saying is that I'm starting over on the design, but I
shall be actively producing it, so it is my hope that by the new year I
will have the new design up and running. This does mean that I have to
learn a bit more about WP 3 but I'm not concerned. I'll be basically
rebuilding everything from the ground up, so wish me luck on that. It's
gonna be fun! Shut up, I know what fun means.Yes I do! Why are you being
so hostile? We used to be buds. Is this because I haven't posted for 6
months? No? You sure? Because that's what it seems like to me.

Moving on.

I'm also working on a side-project or two that may or may not see the
light of day. It's sort of going to depend on if I and my project bud
can get our shit together. Working with an 5 hour time difference is...
difficult.

Also also, I've been reading, and playing more games. I swear I will
bash out some review for them. First I have to get the images thing
working again. Baby steps! Feel free to add me to Xbox Live. My Tag is
'Jack Dutson'.

Until next time kids!

And remember: Only you can prevent forest fires.

Corey signing out.
