Title: My wedding
Date: 2012-09-02 10:33
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: CSS, Design, HTML, invitations Taylor Jackson, JavaScript, JQuery, layouts, offset printing, print, The Print Space, Typoretum, website, Wedding
Slug: my-wedding
Status: published
SlugPic: wp-content/uploads/2013/05/weddng-square.jpg
Summary: I made all of the media for my wedding: invitations, drink menu, invites, you name it.


[![Schedule of the
day](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/banner.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/banner.jpg)

I married a very wonderful lady on September 1st, 2012. It was a stunning day; full of friends, family and food. There was a lot of dancing and everyone had a great time. Of course with my skillsets at hand, I refused to let just anyone design the invites or website.

The following is a quick snapshot the all of the work that I put into
making our wedding as themed as possible.

I mean beautiful.

Overview
--------

While I had a fairly easy time of the wedding, I was on occasion
required to do a couple things. I had to get suited up, I had to arrive
on time and sober, and I had to say 'yes'. I did demand however, that I
create all of the printed items, along with the website. Though my wife
was happy for me to make the website, she was less enthused about my
making all of the printed materials.  Turns out she's a bit of a
control-freak when it comes to things like that.

That said, she relented and the end result was awesome if I do say so
myself.

[![The seating
plan](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/ct-0050-v2.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/ct-0050-v2.jpg)

The invitations
---------------

[![All grey and
yellow](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/invite-onePager4-410x557.jpg){: class=alignleft }](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/invite-onePager4.jpg)

The invitations were the first to be produced. They were also, as it
worked out, the longest to make. I wanted them to be perfect, which
means I went through seven iterations to come up with a design that I
was happy with. I had to figure out how to best alter the weddings
colours (grey and yellow) to make sure they printed properly. Half a day
spent in the pantone books landed me with some winning colours that
could also be converted to RGB for web work. Once I got a design that I
was happy with, I went and sent them off to get printed at
[Typoretum](http://www.typoretum.co.uk/ "Typoretum").

Now I need to take a moment to talk about
[Typoretum](http://www.typoretum.co.uk/ "Typoretum"), because they were
some of the nicest people I've ever worked with. They weren't pressuring
me into any sales, sent me paper samples, gave advice on sizing the best
ways to cut down costs, and more. They were friendly, helpful, and their
quality was outstanding. As a lovely gesture, they also sent me the
physical plates for me to keep, which was awesome of them. Once they
were all printed, I stuffed them into yellow envelopes and off they went
to our future guests. Truly, they are worth every penny, and I'd
recommend their work to anyone.

The invites turned out to be stunning, and I can honestly say it's some
of the best work I've ever produced (with a little help from the
printers, of course).

The website
-----------

[![Top of the
website](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/top.jpg)](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/top.jpg)

What kind of web guy would I be if I didn't build a website for my own
wedding? A lazy one to be sure, and a sad excuse for a designer to boot.
Thankfully, this is the only wedding I'm ever planning on having, so I
opted to get off my ass and build something.

[![Css-enhanced
photos](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/pictures-410x263.jpg){: class=alignleft }](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/pictures.jpg)

I decided to bring in the weddings' overall theme elements such as the
fonts and colours, as well as some of the flourishes and themes of the
wedding venue to make the website unique to our wedding. I brought in
some subtle background textures as well as a large wood background to
warm the design up, as well as really give a feel as to what to expect
from our wedding. I made the website tall and thin, much like most of
the printed materials that I ended up producing. I really wanted to try
and bring as much unity throughout the whole experience; online and
traditional print.

All of the copy was written by myself, though sanity checked by a couple
others. I wanted to make sure the website had all of the details needed
for any potential guests, and make it as simple as possible to use. I
almost went as far as to write up proper user journeys, but stopped
short due to time constraints. I interviewed a couple of our potential
guests, as well as those helping us to manage the whole thing to make
sure we knew what everyone was going to need.

[![Javascript
fader](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/fader-410x263.jpg){: class=alignright }](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/fader.jpg)I
enhanced some aspects of the website using CSS3 and HTML5, but the basic
website still works for everyone that visits. I created some simple
faders to help showcase my method of proposal, as well as a simple
tabbed interface to help cut down on overall page length. I enhanced the
top navigation with some jQuery to make the transition between sections
a bit nicer.

The form at the bottom of the page uses both browser-side and
server-side validation to help cut down on false positives and
accidental submissions from our potential guests.

In the end there are a couple things I would choose to change now in
order to make it a better experience, but as the website had a limited
shelf-life, I've not bothered to go back and do anything more to it.

The schedule
------------

[![The menu and signing
tree](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/ct-0051-v2-410x613.jpg){: class=alignright }](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/ct-0051-v2.jpg)

One of the last things I had to produce ended up being the schedule for
the day. I say it was the last thing because I totally and utterly
forgot to actually make it until I was reminded by my now dear wife.
Both the schedule and the bar menu were printed by the lovely folks over
at [The Print Space](http://www.theprintspace.co.uk/ "The Print Space").
They do great flat printing, and I'd highly recommend them.

Given the amount of information that I had to convey, I was a bit stuck
for the style of document. I didn't want to go with a standard 8/11, but
I couldn't fit it all onto an A5 document like the invitation. I decided
to go atypical and had some custom-sized documents made up.

By going with something oddly sized, it gave me the freedom to lay out
all of the information without having to worry about the constraints of
the paper. It also had the knock-on effect of being more memorable for
everyone. Given the amount of drinking that happened the night before
the wedding, having something memorable was a definite bonus.

I had a lot of fun laying out this document, if only for the challenge
of how to structure the entire document. In one page, I had to provide
the wedding party's names, the pre-wedding schedule, the wedding proper,
as well as some helpful information for everyone that could actually
drag themselves out of bed the next morning.

The bar menu
------------

[![So many
alcohols](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/menu-410x567.jpg){: class=alignleft }](http://wallofscribbles.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/menu.jpg)

Probably the most important document I made, or at the very least one of
the most viewed and used documents for the whole event.

The bar menu ended up being one of the hardest documents I had to make.
Not only did I have to fit in all of the alcohols that were available
(of which there were many), as well the bride and groom's suggested
drinks, but I also had to fit it within a small picture frame.

I ended up running all of the drinks in a continuous line, which allowed
for me to give some emphasis on the suggested drinks.

I should note that the bride's suggestion was easily the more popular at
the wedding. How? I've no idea.

At the end of the day...
------------------------

...I had a lot of fun producing all of this. I honestly hope I can get
some freelance work producing similar items, because not only do I get a
lot of satisfaction with the end product, but it all gets to be so
unique; a trait I'm sure any designer can appreciate.

### Additional note

All of the actual photos on this page (that is, not comps or imacs) were
taken by my friend and wedding photographer, Taylor Jackson. If you want
absolutely stunning wedding photos, [check him
out](http://www.taylorjacksonphoto.com/ "Taylor Jackson Photography").
