Title: Designapalooza - Part One
Date: 2007-11-21 00:34
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Art, Designapalooza, Graphic Designer, Learning, Part 1, School
Slug: designapalooza-part-one
Status: published

*Just a note: Over my next couple posts I hope to dive into some of the
following points with more detail, and link resources that anyone who
[stumbles upon](http://www.stumbleupon.com/ "StumbleUpon") this can
hopefully find useful, or to assist them in their quest for knowledge. I
will also go more into my personal experiences and what I've learned
coming out of them.*

I went to school, graduated, and got a job in my field. That's great,
right? Should be, but as it turns out I'm not as big a fan of coding
every day 5-7 days a week ([overtime is
evil](/2007/11/14/overtime-is-evil/ "overtime is eveil")). I enjoy it, I
really do, but either you are made to do this day in and out or you not.
That's why many developers move on to project management and consulting.
Others revel in it, and good for them.

I am not a reveler. I noticed pretty much from day one that I migrated
towards the visual design of every project I've had my hand in. The more
control I had over that, the more I enjoyed the project. It took me a
while to realize that my enjoyment was more then just simple ability or
coincidence. Sure I had more HTML and CSS experience then the other
coders, but I chose to go for those aspects. As time passed I realized
that this was something I wanted to do. I wanted to create smooth
websites, ripe with clarity and ability, and still adhere to the rules.
The problem is I don't know what the rules are. At least I didn't. At
this point I think I know about 3% of them.

My first step has been ***looking into courses and schools.*** What
schools offer, how much it costs, there they're located, course-load,
topics covered, school reputation, and how it will influence my life in
the future. I haven't made any official steps yet, but I'm keeping my
eyes open. I'm aware that I've already gone through college and
completed an advanced diploma in Computer Programming/ Systems Analysis,
which is great. I learned loads of useful information that I currently
use in my place of work.

For any budding programmers out there, let me just say this. UML,
planning, flow diagrams, etc. *will* make your life easier. They help
you translate your ideas to others where words can fail. When done well,
they illustrate what you want to do. Ironically this hits another point
with design. Clarity of your idea is key, and that translates across any
and everything that you can and will do in life.

I'm digressing though.

So step one was ***looking into schools***. That's great, but doesn't
really do much if you don't act on it. Maybe you can't yet (money, point
in life, whatever) and that's cool. It's a big step and believe me when
I say that I'm feeling the pressure as much as anyone else who's been in
this situation. So what have I done to help my situation? Well I started
at work.

I forced my way into the design work, the design conversations whenever
I can, and made it my business to interact with [our
designer](http://plantt.ca/ "Richard Plantt"). I know that sounds cold,
and I don't mean it the way it sounds because he's actually a truly rad
guy and I'm glad to work with and talk to him. What I'm saying is that
whenever I can give ***valid*** - please God *note the valid* - input, I
do. If it gets turned down, I can at least evaluate why and learn from
it. If it's taken into consideration, that's even better. By pushing to
do more of the design work (in my case, converting the designers works
of art into something practical) I've gained even more knowledge, and
I've put myself into a position where I can interact with the tools and
people that I need to to educate myself.

This is a key point. ***Self-education can go a long way in helping you
understand design***. Hell, even if you want to learn to cook. Get a job
at a restaurant, and put yourself in a position where you're working
with the cooks in some fashion. Start as a dish washer, and ask
questions about dishes being made, etc.



I'm talking to people and learning some tricks... now what?

***Mess around.*** Get your hands on a copy of your preferred tool and
go nuts. Find tutorials on how to do whatever you think looks cool and
see how they do it. Find multiple ways to do it and compare effort
versus payoff to find the more efficient route. Screw with the tool and
see what you can create by yourself. Break it if you can, if only to see
what not to do. Basically get a handle on your tools. Sure schools will
teach you this stuff eventually, but even the schools can't teach you
every nuance of any given program. On top of that you may find that you
hate the tools you are using and wish to find new ones. You may find
that you can't stand doing "this" at all. Better to find out now then 3
years down the road.

Now take a step back and take in everything so far. You've looked into
education. You've talked to people. You've screwed around and read
tutorials. Fantastic!

Now you're ready to realize that you don't know much about design
whatsoever.

***Don't freak out.*** This is the wall that a lot of people hit, and
I've hit it myself recently. It's that point that separates people who
"know how to use Photoshop" to people who "design with Photoshop". This
is something that many people don't get. They figure that they know how
to do a mess of cool tricks in Fireworks that they're ready for
anything. Are they though? Do they understand composition? How about
contrast? Weight? Spacing? Kerning? What about leading the viewers
vision? Oh, and how about how colours affect moods, or how certain
positions feel better on a fundamental level? Do you understand focal
points, The Golden Rule, or how to make photos more dynamic?

If you can answer all of those without looking them up, pulling it out
of your ass, or without thinking really, *really* hard on them... well
chances are you know more about what I'm talking about here then I do
and are probably reading this to feel wistful or to make yourself feel
big. I'm not a designer. Not yet. I know I can't answer those questions.
My education has only just started. If I become really good in the field
then I'll have more questions to ask. I know enough to be able to ask
the questions. It shows that I know there is more to design then
filters, sexy fonts, and gradients. The extent of my learning has come
from the next step.

***Read*** ***everything***.

Leave no stone unturned in your quest for knowledge. Amass RSS feeds on
numerous angles of design. Consume the words of your betters ravenously.
Scour Digg, Google News, search engines, and every design community for
articles, tips, reviews, and examples. The most important part? Read
openly and continuously. Read with a clear head and an understanding
that these people probably know what their talking about. At the very
least they probably know more than you. That doesn't mean you shouldn't
question what you read, but don't turn it down just because someone else
said gave differing commentary. If you're really confused, ask. Post a
question on the blog, submit a question to the forum. Whatever it takes.
Just remember to be courteous. You'd be amazed how nice and helpful the
blogger community can be.

After you have completed all of this, you'll probably be at about 30%.
To be honest I don't think there could ever be a designer that is at the
100%, because that would just break my mind. I'm sure people will
continue to drive towards that statistical impossibility which makes me
happy.

Keep on learning people, keep on learning.

This is the second part of an ongoing series depicting my process to
becoming a graphic designer. My next installment will cover what to look
for when trying to find a school.

-   Part One (Currently reading)
-   [Part
    Two]({filename}../Self-improvement/designapalooza-part-two.md "Designapalooza - Part Two")
-   [Part
    Three]({filename}../Self-improvement/designapalooza-part-three.md "Designapalooza - Part Three")
-   [Part
    Four]({filename}../Self-improvement/designapalooza-part-four.md "Designapalooza - Part Four")
-   [Part
    Five]({filename}../Self-improvement/designapalooza-part-four.md "Designapalooza - Part Five")
-   [Part
    Six]({filename}../Self-improvement/designapalooza-part-six.md "Designapalooza - Part Six")
-   [Part
    Seven]({filename}../Self-improvement/designapalooza-part-seven.md "Designapalooza - Part Seven")

