Title: 360 Degrees of Failure
Date: 2009-01-06 10:30
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Bad bad bad, Frustration, Microsoft, XBox
Slug: 360-degrees-of-failure
Status: published

I'll preface this by saying that since getting my XBox 360, I've been
enjoying it thoroughly. It works fairly well, It's shiny, I can now play
games from my bed, it treats me nicely. I know a lot of people will hate
on me for getting a 360, what with the red ring of death issue, blah
blah blah. I'll say now that the Wii needs elbow room, the PS3 has
absolutely nothing on it that I want to play (that's a lie, Little Big
Planet interests me greatly) and I don't feel like having to repeatedly
upgrade my computer just to play games that almost always come out for a
console. I'm going for the hassle-free approach.

The irony in that statement will become apparent as you continue to
read. It blows my mind how much effort and extra money all of this cost
me.

Also it should be mentioned that the span of all of the following events
took place over a week and a bit, because I was only at my home for
about two days over the entire time-line.


<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->


Alright so where to begin? I've always sort of wanted an XBox 360, which
would come to a shock to a younger version of me. I was always a huge
fan of the PlayStation. Sadly since the PS3 has nothing on it that
interests me, my loyalties have changed. That and I don't think Blu-ray
is doing very well, so I don't need a player for them at the moment.

The issue with wanting one and owning one were two-fold. First there was
the issue of my T.V. being almost comically small. I've had it since I
was 13, and bought it with my very own paper route money. It's colour,
mono sound, has no AV jack ports, and I lost the remote so long ago that
it's nothing but a myth. The second issue is that in order to get a
decent XBox, I'd be looking to drop anywhere from 350-500 dollars.

As I have a shortage of funds, these two points were a little more
daunting than I would like to admit. I told myself that when I could
afford a nice T.V. and an XBox, it would be one of those "for me"
purchases and left it at that. Then my parents decided to buy a fancy
new T.V., and I was given the older one from the family room. Now it's
nothing amazing, but it has two AV jack ports, stereo sound, and a
remote (mind you, the 3 doesn't work well on it). So I now had a T.V.
that would service my needs. The XBox costing too much still put me off
the purchase though.

So then Boxing Day comes around, and lo and behold I can get an XBox 360
with four games - Kung-fu Panda, LEGO Indiana  Jones, Halo 3, and
Stranglehold -, and a 60 gig hard drive for 260 dollars. that's roughly
130 dollars cheaper then usual, not even factoring the cost of the free
games which average around 45 dollars each. Put it together and I could
save 310\~ dollars. This is not something I could pass up.

This is where things start to slowly go down-hill.

Day 1 (Friday)
--------------

So the flier says that [Future
Shop](http://www.futureshop.ca/ "Future Shop.ca") opens at 6 a.m. I make
the decision to line up at 3 a.m. because they only had 20 or so of
these deals. This may sound insane, but trust me when I say that there
were people who were lined up there as of 12:30 that morning. The kicker
is that due to some insane bylaw in Brantford, Future Shop could only
open at 9 a.m.. For those unwilling to do the math, that's an extra
**three** hours of standing in the cold, hating myself. Thankfully I had
a chair and my sleeping bag, so I was alright for the most part. Waiting
around for 6 hours was... less fun.

In the end I got my XBox 360, brought it home, and only then did I
realize that it is the only NextGen console that does not have built in
wireless. Why? I have no actual idea, though "cash gouging" comes to
mind. "No worries," I thought, "I'll just pick one up while we're out!
How expensive can they be?"

Day 4 (Monday)
--------------

**100 dollars**, as it turns out. Which is, of course, *insane*. "There
must be a way around this!" I proclaimed. I went to the all-knowing
Google and [started looking
around](http://www.google.ca/search?source=ig&hl=en&rlz=&=&q=xbox+360+computer+as+wireless&btnG=Google+Search&meta=lr%3D "Google: Search Results for XBox 360 computer as wireless").

There is apparently a way to rig up your XBox 360 into your computer
using [Internet Connection
Sharing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Connection_Sharing "Wikipedia: Internet Connection Sharing").
After following 3 of these tutorials, failing, and nearly killing my
computer and network to boot, I decided to try a different approach.Well
not totally true, I fished out my old laptop, and tried doing the same
through that, but it was even less successful; something I didn't even
think was possible.

This whole thing took roughly four hours of my life away.

Day 7 (Thursday)
----------------

"I should be able to use a router as an access point, hook into the
wireless network that already exists, and then connect the XBox to the
router via Ethernet!" This is possible, as it turns out, only if you
have the correct routers. [D-Link](http://www.dlink.ca/ "D-Link"), which
was up until this experience my router of choice, does not actually
allow this quite the way I want.

**What I want:**

-   Router A is connected to the modem, and broadcasts the
    wireless network.
-   Router B acts as a repeater; that is to say that it connects to the
    Wireless network from Router A wireless-ly (this is an
    important distinction) and acts as an additional hub, and/or repeats
    the signal from Router A.
-   Things can then connect to Router B and they will attach themselves
    to the network, which makes my XBox go live.
-   Alternately, allow my XBox to use Router B as an antennae, allowing
    it to connect to the Wireless signal broadcast by Router A.

**What my D-Links can *actually* do:**

-   Router A is connected to the modem, and broadcasts the
    wireless network.
-   Router B can ***connect to Router A with an Ethernet cable***, and
    then act as a broadcast anchor.
-   Things can then connect to Router B, and it directs the traffic back
    to Router A.



Since I cannot run a cable through my house, this effectively screwed
me. Of course I only found this out after buying the router, trying,
failing, and then finding the manual online (doesn't come with one!).
This took another couple hours of my life away. The router is of course
non-refundable. The upswing to this is that when I move out, I have a
router. Fantastic. For now though, it sits in my closet, mocking me.

"I know I've seen this done though! My friend has this exact setup!" I
screamed, bordering upon hysterics at this point. It turns out that the
only router that ***can*** do this the way I want is a [Linksys
router](http://www.linksys.com/servlet/Satellite?c=L_Product_C2&childpagename=US%2FLayout&cid=1149562300349&pagename=Linksys%2FCommon%2FVisitorWrapper&lid=0034939789B08 "Linksys.com: WRT54G Wireless G Router"),
which of course is what he has. This will teach me to leap before I
look.

Day 10 (Sunday)
---------------

### 11:45 A.M.

At this point I snap. "Fine! Fuck all of this, I'll just spend the 100
dollars and get the stupid adapter for the stupid XBox so I can finally
get online!"

Totally defeated, I got into my car and drove down to the closest EB
Games to pick up an *outrageously* over-priced [Wireless
Adapter](http://www.futureshop.ca/catalog/proddetail.asp?logon=&langid=EN&sku_id=0665000FS10067321&catid=26889 "Futureshop.ca: XBox 360 Wireless Adapter").
I decided against going to the Brantford Future Shop, which is about the
same distance as EB Games (in the opposite direction, basically),
because they specialize in video games and so the funding should go
their way.

### 12:10 P.M.

EB Games is closed. Not a "back in 5 minutes" closed. This was a
"Shutters are down" sort of closed. a Closed closed. No hours of
operation in sight.

"Fuck you EB Games, I'll just go to Wal-Mart" I proclaim as I dive back
into my car.

### 12:18 P.M.

[Wal-Mart](http://www.walmart.ca/ "Wal-Mart Canada") carries every other
XBox accessory, including [Viva
Pinata](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viva_Pinata "Wikipedia: Viva Pinata")
face plates, but no Wireless Adapter. It's literally the only thing they
don't carry. There isn't even a peg for it. Asking the
[mouthbreather](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=mouthbreather "Urban Dictionary: Mouthbreather")
working the electronics section says "if it's not there, we don't have
it… I guess." I hate Wal-Mart.

"Alright, fine. I'll go to Microplay! They are a trustworthy store that
can fulfill my request" I say, my knuckles going white from gripping my
cars steering wheel too tightly.

### 12:29 P.M.

I enter the
[Microplay](http://www.microplay.com/Default.aspx "Microplay.com") and
wait until my general anger and distaste for the universe decidedly
stops their conversation, and they graciously ask me if there's
something I am looking for. I scan the wall and do not see any wireless
adapters. I figure they probably have some in the back, and so I ask.



Both employees look at the wall, then above their heads at the
additional storage area and mutter to one another like some sort of
synchronized pantomime of ignorance. My forced smile fades as I already
know the response: "We're sold out, I guess" says the less clean of the
two. I'm already starting to move towards the door by the time they say
this. I thank them and exit, my rage slowly starting to get the better
of me.

"**Fine**. I will go to the Future Shop. The Future Shop I *could* have
gone to in the first place." This was then followed by a collection of
curses, the details of which escape me. Suffice it to say, it was both
colourful and creative.

### 12:45 P.M.

I arrive at Future Shop, park, and stride in. The greeter shies away
from me, probably tasting the rage that pre and proceeds me. I walk into
the XBox 360 section, and find three wireless adapters left. With 10
dollars off, no less. Lucky me, I guess. I spent about that much money
in gas, so it basically evened out.

As I go to pay for the adapter, the check-out girl wishes me a good day
with a smile, and I restrain myself from putting a hole in the wall.
Thankfully my rage is slowly, slowly ebbing away.

### 1:05 P.M.

I plug in the Wireless Adapter, turn the XBox on, test the connection,
and I'm up and running. The connection is horrid due to my dressers
apparent lead physiology. This forces me to re-arrange my entire shelf
to allow the XBox to reside on the top with the T.V.

### 1:20 P.M.

Connect to XBox live, download the OS update, and spend a good 10
minutes online trying to come up with a Gamertag that actually isn't
taken. This is harder than it seems. XBox Live asks me if I want to be a
Gold member. To have this privilege (which expires every year) will cost
me an additional 60 dollars a year. "Fine, fuck it, whatever," I mutter
as I attempt to explode someones head at the XBox headquarters via
transferred telekinesis. I sign my life away and eventually the system
is up.

### 1:40 P.M.

I decide to download Castle Crashers, a game that I love dearly, only to
find that I must add [Microsoft
Points](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Points "Wikipedia: Microsoft Points")
in order to purchase it. 30 dollars for 2000 points (that's roughly 1.5
cents per point. Not a good exchange rate) later, I drop 1200 to own the
game.

In the end...
-------------

So lets see: almost two weeks to get the Xbox live, and it cost me 240
dollars to get to that point. How? well 90 for the wireless adapter, 50
for the useless router, 60 for the online membership, 30 more for the
points, and 10 for gas.

Good thing I got 130 off the Xbox eh? I would have been totally screwed
there!

In the end, I'm glad it is up and running, but the shitstorm that I went
through to get to this point almost made me murder someone.

Oh and in case anyone wants to friend me on XBox Live, my gamertag is
"**Jack Dutson**"

Don't ask, it's a sort of inside joke with Theresa. She appreciated it.
