Title: Respect the Process, Damnit
Date: 2008-02-14 00:15
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: Code, diagrams, functional specifications, Internet, process, project, Technology, UML
Slug: respect-the-process-damnit
Status: published

Fast forward to my current job. I can assure you that there are a
plethora of examples that I could choose from for the point I will be
making here, but one strikes me as perfect. You see when we developers
started there things were volatile, unstructured, and pretty much a
mess. My now fellow programmers and myself were hired in the wake of a
collection of other developers leaving for one reason or another. We
were also thrust into a project pretty much from the moment we sat in
our chairs.

This was all fine and good, and we build what we thought we were
*supposed* to build. Three days before we showed it to the client, we
went through a run-through with the manager, only to find out that what
we built was not what the client wanted. Well okay parts of it were, but
for the most part it was off the mark. The result was months of us
working grueling hours of overtime, wherein time became an abstract
concept and my world knew nothing but code.

What the hell happened?

### We didn't have a process.

We built what we were told to build at the start, but things changed.
The functional spec. was updated and we were never told. On the flip
side, we also never went looking. Communication was sub-par at best, and
the short of it is that there was enough blame for everyone.

We thought we had a process, but the debacle that we ran headlong into
demonstrated that whatever process was in place either wasn't working or
was never initiated. The result was everything blowing up in our face.
As it turns out, if you do not learn from this mistake, it will happen
again and again. I could pull from more examples, but I'll refrain...
sort of.  
  
I am on a new project, in fact I am the lead developer of said project.
It's my first time doing this and I'll admit that it is a daunting task,
but I set about doing my best. I was given a functional specification,
which I thought odd because I'm pretty sure I'm the one that's supposed
to build that. I was told to add my section to it and that was that. I
did so, to the best of my ability, with the information I had available
to me.

It was okayed, and I started handing out tasks and the development cycle
began.

Then I was told that the way things were supposed to work wouldn't work
that way anymore. This was after we had built stuff. This is generally a
bad design move, because now any development that was already done now
has to be reviewed and possibly scrapped. I updated the spec. again, and
away we went. Then I realized that something wasn't covered with the
information I was given, so I asked a question. One question, I swear to
God I only asked one but what was the end result? Another overhaul.
Another attempt at the functional spec.

This has happened a couple times, and is not how the process should
work. In a perfect world, the functional spec. is completely done before
a line of code is written. The world is not perfect of course, and we
have to make do with what we got, but damnit, I wasn't about to go and
take another stab at anything only to have it change on me again. So I
went back to my college roots, and I made a decision:

### I will make the process work again.

How can I do that though, when everything has apparently been thrown to
the wind? It's easier than I thought... well sort of. It still requires
effort, but I'd rather expend the effort where I did fixing the process
then rebuilding anything three times.

I sat down with my other main developer, and we went through
*everything*. We went through every aspect of the functional spec,
screen designs, and data sources, and figured out how it all works. We
asked all the 'hows' and 'what ifs' as well as all of the 'what the
hells' that subsequently came up. We went through every resource,
created or not, and decided what was needed, what information had to be
stored, etc.. We created use cases for the complex cases, and walked
through more processes then I would care to count.

The end result? I spent *ten hours* (minimum) in a board room with a
print-enabled white board and wrote everything down. I'm pretty sure we
have at least 15 printouts of notes and questions and diagrams and use
cases which helped clear up the utter ambiguity that surrounded the
project. They get it now, and so do I. It's no longer a matter of "how
does this work?" but a matter of "what's the next task?" Yes I have to
update the functional spec. again, but at least now I know what to add,
and where. The document is finally useful, and the project is
understood. The process exists once again.

I've also taken it upon myself to write all of those tasks down in a
shared location, so that whoever is on the project can take on new tasks
as the run out of their assigned ones. That way no one has the excuse
for not knowing what is next.

So yes we lost a day of development, but we have saved ourselves days of
effort of unneeded rebuild time. Do it right the first time, and you'll
save time later.

On a side note, Sorry Mr. Miller turns out you were write all along
about Analysis. My Bad.
