Title: Vindicate
Date: 2008-09-01 00:05
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: fiction, short-story, Vindicate
Slug: vindicate
Status: published

This man though, he had something about him that was unnatural. Not that
he held any magical prowess, or that he was an imposing beast of a man.
No, he is nothing more then a pick-pocket, good with a knife, but
nothing spectacular. It was more in the way he carried himself. The way
that despite the fact that, even now, as he walks towards the court
where all of us are painfully aware that he will be sentenced to death,
he walks with his head held high. Considering the charges lay against
him, it will probably be a beheading in the main square outside the
palace.

A shame really. Before the kings recent binge in the extinguishing of
life, our city was the most pristine in the land. Truly a sight that
never failed to rob one of their breath. Even those of us who had lived
here all our lives could be moved to tears from the beauty of it. Those
same people are still moved to tears today, but not from the weep of
joy. It is the weep of a man who must watch as his lover slowly dies,
while he can do nothing to help her or ease her pain. Tears of
frustration, of helplessness, of such utter grief that one would think
that the very gods had come down and cursed them personally. Maybe the
gods have done just that to our city. Are we doomed to watch all that
which we held dear slowly decay under the weight and stench of blood and
gore? Did we bring this upon ourselves?

---

Just as most of us had assumed, the pick-pocket is to be sentenced to
yet another public execution in the square. The reason of course, is
treason. I find myself wondering recently if he and all the other rebels
are really the traitors, or if it is we who still follow the king that
are the villain in it all. We arrest the innocent; we kill them under
the kings will, but is that will sound? Have any of them done what the
King says they have?

Again he holds himself with that quiet grace that we all find so
unsettling, but there is something different. His eyes no longer hold
within them the same spark that was contained with such reckless abandon
a short while ago. His eyes are cold now, hard. He holds his head high
still, and refuses to look away to those who dare to stare him down.
More then one guard has had to glance away for the guilt they feel
building within their very being. The last weapon of a man condemned.
Does he feel some sort of twisted sense of pleasure, of entertainment as
everyone around him squirms?

It's his calm that throws us all so harshly. This is what sets him apart
from the others we've â€˜contained'. They all either weep like a new born
child who knows not their parents, or rave like a man who has glimpse
the mind of a god, who spout out incoherent drivel at the best of times.
Some even rip at the bars, the walls, even themselves in a blind rage at
the thought of their life being cut so violently short.

Not him. He sits there humming a tune, or trying to converse with the
guards as if nothing were the matter and that his being held here was
but a mere accident that would be corrected within the hour. Still
though, it's his eyes. It's all a pantomime I know, for as I watch him I
see the cold sweat beading along his hairline. I see the tremor in his
hand that he cannot seem to banish. I hear the crack in his voice he
covers up with a cough. I notice how he constantly paces back and forth,
always moving. So much so that I would think the man could be a river,
should he ever become a part of the Earth.

---

The pick-pockets day has come. He has but hours left to live, and I
chafe. I chafe for the fact that I feel he was doing nothing but trying
to help the city he has come to love, much like the rest of us; much
like I have. When I joined the King's ranks, I did so with the romantic
notion of protecting the city I had lived in all my life; the city I had
come to love as dearly as any parent; the place that I called home. What
happened to that I wonder? Have I been so drawn into the motions of the
job that I have forgotten the reason I had joined to begin with? Have I,
in my own small way, become no better then the raving King I so
respected long ago?

Maybe insanity is contagious, and I am as sick as all the others.

I pull out the keys to the pick-pockets' cell. For the first time, I
take a look at that which have been the tool of so many peoples'
destruction. Cold, hard, every nick and crack is filled with grime,
dirt; there are even spots of dried blood on some of them, the keys
where the more... spirited... individuals were kept. They repulse me
now, but they serve their purpose silently, without complaint.

I insert the key into the now rusting lock of his cell. The lock screams
its outrage at its use, so seemingly unwilling to be a part of the
horrors that it has been in the past. The cell door swings open, and
there he is, standing. He doesn't dive for the door, he doesn't scream
his outrage, nor does he weep like all the others. He stands there, so
strong despite the weight of all that he knows is about to happen.

"Come along now, it's time for you to go." I state as I stand aside to
let him escape from his cell, where I am sure he could barely breathe
with all the dark thoughts that pollute the room. As we walk down the
hall, I grab his meager possessions, and bring them along. "I'll at
least let you die in the same state in which you lived." I mutter as we
walk past the last check point.

He gives me a look that could break even the stoniest of hearts.

"Thank you. That is more then I would expect from his graciousness, the
King." Even as he says this, he cannot completely hide the contempt in
his voice, nor the sneer that crosses his face. I don't blame him; he
has every right to curse the king. Most of us do. This whole city has
that right.

We approach the door to the courtyard, and I see that for a brief
instant, a mere iota of time, he falters. That spark in his eyes returns
in a flash, and dissipates just as quickly. For that brief moment, he
cannot believe what is happening, he doubts everything as it is
happening. He wonders if it's worth his very life, and in that same
instant, he knows his answer.

He adjusts his shirt, smooths his hair, and prepares himself to die for
what he believes in.

I open the door, and the cool demeanor he had himself so well entrenched
in slips away. We're in the entrance to an alley. Human refuse and
byproduct fills the air with a nigh-ungodly sent. The heat of the day
does little help other then to keep the air heavy, and the smell low.
Those in the spires will never notice, to which their blissful ignorance
only perpetuates.

"What is this?" He blurts out, his mouth agape. He looks around in
wide-eyed disbelief, like that of a child entering a candy shoppe for
the first time.

"My own redemption," I say as I pull out the keys, the very embodiment
of everything I had come to despise. "Take the keys, and go. Do what
I... What all of us are too terrified to do. Fight for our city. Free it
from the death march it seems so content to continue on with. I will not
stand by as my home crumbles and turns in upon itself."

That hard look has returned to his face, and his eyes betray no emotion.
All I can see within them is a reflection of myself. That same look
graces my own face.  
We can hear yelling from down the hallway, and the scuffling of boots
as those who have caught onto my plan race to stop that which is already
too late.

"You'll die, you know this right?"

"I made my choice. Take the keys and go." I drop the keys into his hand,
and he flees the scene with a speed born of fear, of exhilaration, of a
man living on the grace of the gods.

"Let my choice be not in vain."

The guards show up and run me down without a second thought, possibly
without even a first. It may be all instinct at this point. They disarm
me, and force me at sword-point to the kings' court. The King screams
his rages at me, his curses at me, all his hatred and malice at me. Were
I any other man in that room, I would have had to turn my head from the
shear detestation that emanated from the man in palatable waves. All his
hate fell upon deaf ears though, and I return to him the stare I learnt
so well from the pick-pocket. He accuses me in being in league with the
rebels, and I have been for months, feeding them information. A complete
and unnecessary action on his part as no one believed an acidic word
that dripped from his frothing lips, and no one would challenge him
anyways. Who would defend a man condemned?

Other then myself.

---

It seems my last day has come. I sit in the very cell that he was
contained in. I found it to be fitting that we trade places so readily.
None of the guards can look at me now, and those that do stare at me as
if I am already dead. Many were one time friends, some from childhood
even, but none will look at me. None will fight for me. I'm just another
criminal to them now. Already I can hear the rumors in the air like a
perfume of a love long past; bittersweet. It has grown to be a harrowing
escape wherein the pick-pocket and myself fought our way through nine or
ten guards, and ending with the pick-pocket abandoning me when I was
caught. I won't correct them, I'd rather the story grow into a legend to
shake what they believe in.

The lock screams once more in bitter outrage at the system it finds
itself in. The door swings open, and I am dragged to my feet. I shake
off their grips and hold my head high, strong. I want nothing less then
to be treated like the man that I am; a man of purpose, a man of
dignity; a man walking towards his own self-imposed vindication.
Suddenly I know how he felt. The feeling is like no other. A total calm,
a resolve in what you are doing.

I hold myself with quiet dignity as they open the doors to the
courtyard. So many times I've gone through these motions and it was all
so routine, yet this is the first time I could feel everything. I could
smell the stale sweat and blood in the air. I could hear the screams or
hate and sorrow of those who came to watch. I can feel the wind as is
teases through my hair, giving me one last moment of solace and
care-free pleasure in my ever-shortening life.

I stand before the King now; two men: one holding all the power, and the
other seemingly none. He reads off the charges laid against me and
grants me leave to speak my last words, and I stare into his eyes with
an intensity I didn't know I possessed.

I stare into him for what seems like an eternity, though in actuality it
could have been no more then a second or two. In that moment, we
clashed. Our stares fought like two souls on a battle field who have
everything to lose. I can have the satisfaction of knowing that that
shook him. Never had he been forced to do that. Never had he been forced
to look at the people he condemned in the eyes. Never had he been forced
to see the evil he had become.

He blinked first, and we both knew it.

I turn to the people, who have gone quiet as they wait for me to scream
my hatred, scream my injustice to them, at them, at the very world. I
hold no malice though, no hate. I have no reason to scream, to rant and
rave like a man possessed.

"I chose this path, and I stand firm upon its trail. I love this city as
much as I could ever love anything, and I did what I felt was right for
the good of the city. I would not change my actions were I given the
chance to do so. I die a man of resolve, a man of dignity. A man no
more, and no less then that of you and your protectors." My voice rings
out in the square. The world has gone silent. No creature stirs, no
child wails, the wind too, has gone still. My voice echo's like a penny
dropped into a well; haunting, distorted, as it rebounds off of every
surface, every facet of the city I so cared for.

Emerging from what seemed an eternity of agonizing silence, the world
resumes from where it had stopped, and I am placed on the block that is
already slick with the blood of others. How much of this blood did I
assist in spilling?

I hear the executioner pace towards me. I turn my head to face him. He,
like all the others, falters under my gaze. He doesn't agree with this
anymore then I do, yet he will do his job. I can respect that, and I
should expect no less. I scan the crowd for nothing more then for
something to do. There he is; the pick-pocket. He stands in the front
row, and stares at me. No smile graces his lips, no cries of anguish
escape his lips, yet I can feel his gratitude, hear it even as clear as
if he here inches from me, talking. No one recognizes him, though he
stands mere feet from guards. To them, he is just another street urchin.

I turn my head and glance one last time at the King. Gone is my respect
for him, gone is the fear that he used to inspire in me. All that I feel
for him, for everyone, is a deep sadness and a pity for what they have,
do, and will have to endure. A smile breaks the calm of my face, and I
see it shake him to the core. I see him notice for the first time that
he has no power over me, that even as I die, I die a man devoid of his
influence.

I hear the grunt of the executioner and the scrape of the axe across the
pave stones. I see the flash of light at he raises it. I feel the blade
tickle the hairs on the nape of my neck. So gentle, like the kiss of a
lover gone a lifetime, and freshly returned, as if we had never parted.
Just as quickly as it came, it left and I am left with a sense of
complete serenity, all the doubt gone from my mind, all the guesswork of
life has fled. The only thought left was â€˜I'm about to die' and my
acceptance therein. My expression remains placid even as the axe that
once had the touch of a lover rips through my neck with military-esque
precision.

Actually, I did have one more thought. For in that last, fateful moment,
the spark I remember so clearly from his face, that hint of doubt,
flared in my eyes.

Would I die in vain?
