Title: An Unfinished Life (2005)
Date: 2007-10-07 23:54
Author: Corey Dutson
Tags: 2005, An Unfinished Life, Becca Gardner, Jennifer Lopez, Josh Lucas, Morgan Freeman, movie, Reviews, Robert Redford, Theresa
Slug: an-unfinished-life-2005
Status: published

I had the chance to
watch this movie at about 3 in the morning after Theresa suffered a
horrible coughing fit (she developed a cough while at school). She
decided to put a movie on since she has this amazing habit to fall
asleep to any movie she sets her mind to. I sadly do not have the same
ability. In fact I could go so far as to say that if a movie is being
played, I'll be drawn to it like a moth to the flame, regardless of the
quality of the movie. All it takes is one hook and it's over.

I digress.

An Unfinished Life features Morgan Freeman as a maimed black cowboy,
Jennifer Lopez as a woman in an abusive relationship, Robert Redford as
Jennifer Lopez's child's hyper-bitter grandfather, and Josh Lucas as the
local deputy.

The premise of the movie is as follows: Lopez is in an abusive
relationship, and after yet another attack, her daughter convinces her
mom that it's time to go. They take off to the only place Lopez can
think of: Her daughter's dead dad's dads place. This isn't the first
place I would think to go when trying to escape domestic abuse, but
whatever. Lopez and gramps don't get along, but they try for the sake of
the (grand)daughter. There is bonding and realizations met,
confrontations and animal rescue, and old cowboys. Oh and some guy gets
a coffee glass to the face for being a dick.

The over-running theme to the movie was not the abuse as one would
think, what with Lopez staring in that role. It actually centres around
the Grandfather trying to get over himself, and bond with the family he
has; mainly his grand-daughter (played very well by Becca Gardner).

What shocked me about this movie was how toned-down it was. Maybe I was
just coming off an
[over](/?p=35 "Good Luck Chuck")-[reaction](/?p=34 "Ocean's Eleven")
high, but the movie stayed fairly believable throughout. The abuse-topic
was low-key and believable (and as a result, Lopez and Lucas feel like
minor characters), and the grandfather/granddaughter connection theme
wasn't overstated. Ironically the abuse topic tends to be more of a plot
device to demonstrate that there are bigger things to hate in the world
then your ex-daughter-in-law. Morgan Freeman played his usual role of
wise black guy, and his sub-plot was also used as a bit of a plot device
in the gramps/kid line.

What made the movie worth watching to me was the climax, if you wanted
to call it that. I won't give away what it actually was, but I will
state that much like he rest of the movie it was very toned-down. I was
expecting some big scene where everyone's yelling and the camera's all
blurry, but that isn't what happened. It lasted all of two minutes and
left me moved on a deep level. It was stunning in its brutality and
simplicity. It ended much like many scenes like that would *actually*
play out. What I mean is ... have you ever been in a situation and
imagined the ending? It's insane, contains ninjas, and enough explosions
to ruin the atmosphere. When it comes to that situations resolution it's
very small, but still effects you on some base level.

That's how this movie ended for me. It was a slow movie, but I managed
to stay awake and interested, and it ran from 3-5 am. That's gotta say
something for the movie. It was believable (for the most part) and the
ending was simple and honest. That's why I really liked it. Plot devices
aside (and this movie has a bunch, 9 at my last count) it has some
honest and powerful scenes if you're willing to actually watch the movie
from beginning to end.

7/10
